REGISTER
.
WELCOME TO THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION, DENISE.
WE WANT TO OF SURE CALL THE
MEETING WILL BE BROADCAST LIVE
ON CITY AND CABLE 16 AT&T
CHANNEL NINE NINE AND ONLINE AT
EIGHT TO GO BACK OR WATCH IN
PUBLIC COMMENTARY CAN BE MADE
IN PERSON OR BY CALLING EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN OR EIGHT
EIGHT EIGHT SEVEN EIGHT EIGHT
ZERO ZERO NINE NINE
INTERMEETING ID NINE SIX SIX
NINE NINE SIX SEVEN NINE FOUR
ZERO THREE SEVEN EIGHT SEVEN
FOUR COMMISSIONER CAST PRESENT
COMMISSIONER MEDAL'S ABSENT
VICE CHAIR GERBER COUNCIL
MEMBER TOM APSA COUNCIL MEMBER
GOZI EDWYN ABSENT COMMISSIONER
PEAR'S MIZER ABSOLON
COMMISSIONER BOND PRESENT
SHEEREST PRESENT COMMISSIONER
PRESENT COMMISSIONER WINKLER IS
ABSOLOM COMMISSIONER SILVER
PRESENT.
THANK YOU.
TAKE A MINUTE TO LOOK AT THE
AGENDA.
ARE THERE ANY ADDITIONAL
CHANGES THAT YOU'D LIKE TO MAKE
?
WE HAVE A MOTION TO MOVE THE
AGENDA SO MOVE ALL IN FAVOR.
I THANK YOU ALL OF OUR GUESTS.
OH COME JUST HERE FOR PUBLIC
COMMENT.
I DON'T HAVE ANYONE ELSE.
GREAT.
OK, WE HAVE TWO PRESENTATIONS
SCHEDULED FOR FOUR NOW AND WE
WILL MOVE ON A LITTLE SO THAT
WE CAN WAIT FOR THEM TO COME
APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES WE HAVE
A MOTION SO MOVE ALL OF THAT
DISCUSSION.
JAN MAY NOT HAVE A MEETING
BECAUSE OF THE WARM.
ARE THERE OTHER CHANGES THAT
YOU WOULD LIKE TO MAKE IN THE
MINUTES?
I PROPOSE ONE CHANGE ON THE
SECOND PAGE WHERE IT SAYS HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION RESOLUTION TO
PROHIBIT AND THEN IT SAYS GOV
ISSUED GEE, I WANT TO MAKE IT
REAL CLEAR AND JUST SAY
GOVERNMENT ISSUED I.D.
GOVERNMENT I ISSUED
ANYTHING
ELSE AND EVERYBODY'S GOT
SOMETHING AND IT SAYS THAT
AMENDMENT SECOND FAVOR I OPPOSE
A BRIEF POINT OF PROCEDURE.
SARA EMAILED THAT SHE'S TRYING
TO ACCESS THE MEETING VIRTUALLY
BUT IS HAVING DIFFICULTY.
>> I'M UNSURE SURE DENISE COULD
PROVIDE HER THE LINK AS
REQUESTED.
OH, I SEE.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
OK, WELL, UH
WE'LL CONTINUE
UNTIL UNTIL WE HAVE NOTICED
THAT UH, CITY ADMINISTRATOR
TONY IS WITH US UH ALSO WHO ARE
YOU REFERRING TO SARAH YES.
YES YEAH YEAH YEAH I'M A
SENATOR OK YOU JUST HAVE TO LET
I JUST YOU CAN JOIN US I THINK
WE'RE ALSO EXPECTING PAM UH
OK
.
BUT IN THE INTERIM UM AND WE DO
NOT WE WERE GOING TO HAVE A
CITY COUNCIL REPORT THAT WAS
OUR NEXT THE NEXT THING ON OUR
AGENDA AND WE DO NOT HAVE BOTH
OF OUR OUR CITY COUNCIL
LIAISONS ARE ILL OR AND
CAPACITY TO COME TO THIS
MEETING SO WE'RE NOT GOING TO
HAVE THAT.
THIS WAS GOING TO BE A VERY
TIGHT MEETING.
SO UH, PROBABLY DOING ALL
RIGHT.
>> AIDIN, I'M GOING TO ASK YOU
THEN ABOUT FACIAL RECOGNITION.
WE HAVE NOT TALKED ABOUT THAT
IN A LONG TIME.
>> YEAH, ABSOLUTELY.
AS WE PREVIOUSLY DISCUSSED,
FACIAL RECOGNITION AND THE HOPE
FOR ALTERATION TO OUR CITY
ORDINANCE IN RELATION TO FACIAL
RECOGNITION IN THE SENSE THAT
IT CURRENTLY DOES NOT EXIST.
WE'RE HOPING TO HAVE A PROPOSAL
SOMEDAY IN FRONT OF COUNCIL IS
CURRENTLY IN BEING WORKSHOPPED
BY OUR NEW CITY ATTORNEY WITH A
FOCUS WITH WENZHONG BEING A PSC
AS WELL AS TRAVES IS THE OTHER
PEOC MOVING FORWARD FROM THERE
I NEED TO CONNECT WITH LIN WHO
IS NOT WITH TONIGHT WHO SHOULD
BE AND HAS ALREADY CONNECTED
WITH OUR CITY ATTORNEY FROM
THERE.
>> WE'RE VERY HOPEFUL THAT
ACTION CAN HAPPEN MUCH MORE
SWIFTLY NOW THAT WE ARE WORKING
WITH A NEW STAKEHOLDER
ADDITIONALLY AS WELL I WILL SAY
THAT THERE'S BEEN MASSIVE
INTEREST FROM ACROSS COUNCIL
AND SUPPORTING SUCH AN EFFORT.
ADDITIONALLY, WHILE THERE'S
STILL A VERY LARGE PUBLIC
SUPPORT AS WELL.
SO WE'RE HOPING THAT THOSE TWO
THINGS VERY MUCH PUT PRESSURE
ON THIS IN THIS INSTANCE.
BUT I THINK THAT IN THE NEXT
MEETING WHEN LIN IS HERE AS
WELL, WE'LL BE ABLE TO HAVE A
MORE SUBSTANTIVE UPDATE.
>> YEAH.
DO YOU THINK WE'LL HAVE A
CHANCE TO LOOK AT IT AS WELL?
>> WE'RE VERY INTERESTED.
THAT IS VERY MUCH THE PLAN.
SO I THINK MOVING FORWARD ONCE
WE'RE ABLE TO DRAFT LANGUAGE
WITH THE CITY ATTORNEY, THE
PLAN IS TO FIRST PUT IT FORTH
IN THE HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION,
APPROVE IT IF YOU ARE ALL SO
INCLINED AND THEN MOVING
FORWARD WE WOULD THEN WITH
RECOMMENDATION OF THE HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION SAID CITY
COUNCIL AND THE EXPECTATION AND
HOPE RATHER IS THAT IT WOULD
PASS THERE AS WELL.
>> THANK YOU.
THAT WOULD BE SUPREME VERY MUCH
AND YEAH I WAS WELL AND THEN IN
TERMS OF COLLABORATION THE
LANGUAGE I'M MORE THAN HAPPY IN
COLLABORATION WITH WITH LIN AND
OTHER FOLKS AS WELL WHO ARE
INTERESTED TO DRAFT THE ACTUAL
LANGUAGE BUT WITH SUCH
CONSIDERATION AS WELL IN TERMS
OF LIKE THE LEGAL PROCESS IN
PRACTICE NEEDS TO GO THROUGH
THE CITY ATTORNEY PROBABLY
MULTIPLE TIMES BUT KNOW THAT
I'M HAPPY TO TO LEAD THE
DRAFTING AS WELL.
>> GREAT, GREAT.
UM, FOLLOW UP ON HRC WORK UM
COMPLAINTS JUDA SO WE ARE
TWEAKING OUR PROCESS FOR
ALLOCATING AND HANDLING OUR
COMPLAINTS COMMISSION.
DENISE WILL CONTINUE TO FEEL
THE ORIGINAL ONES DO WHAT SHE
DOES IF IT'S SOMEONE OUT
OF JURISDICTION TO TRY TO
CONNECT THEM WITH COMPUTER UM
BODIES WHERE THEY LIVE AND SEND
IT ON TO US SO SHE'LL BE
SENDING ME THE COMPLAINT AND
GIVING ME A TEXT BECAUSE I
NEVER EMAILS AND THEN I WILL
THEN EITHER TAKE IT OR ALLOCATE
IT TO ONE OF THE OTHER PEOPLE
WHO ARE EXPERIENCED WITH IT AND
THEN I WILL ALSO IF THAT PERSON
IS UNAVAILABLE THEY'LL LET ME
KNOW AND I'LL TAKE THE NEXT ONE
ON THE LIST.
UH, ALSO AT THE SAME TIME I
WILL ALSO FIND SOMEONE WHO IS
LESS EXPERIENCED.
SO WE HAVE TEAMS OF TWO ON EACH
ONE AND AGAIN IF THAT PERSON IS
UNAVAILABLE TO PEOPLE THEY
SHOULD LET ME KNOW AS SOON AS
POSSIBLE.
IF NOT, THEN I CAN GO BACK AND
GO DOWN THE LIST AND SO WE
SHOULD ALWAYS HAVE TWO PEOPLE
SO MUCH BETTER THAN ONE YOU CAN
CONFIRM ONE PERSON CAN TAKE THE
LEAD, THE OTHER PERSON CAN YOU
KNOW BUT COLLABORATE.
THAT'S THAT'S THE ESSENCE
OF IT.
I'LL PUT IT IN WRITING.
LINDA IS ALSO WORKING TO REVISE
WE HAVE A CHECKLIST OF THINGS
THAT YOU DO IN PROCESSING
COMPLAINTS THAT WE WOULD BE
MORE OR US TRY TO FOLLOW.
I MEAN EVERY COMPLAINTS ARE
DIFFERENT BUT THERE'S CERTAIN
PROCEDURAL ELEMENTS THAT ARE IN
COMMON THAT WE TRY TO FOLLOW.
SO LINDA'S TWEAKING THAT AND
SHE'LL SAY THAT TO ME AND I'LL
SEND THAT ALONG WITH SORT
OF THE OUTLINE OF WHAT I JUST
SAID AND IF THERE'S ANY ISSUES
OR QUESTIONS, JUST LET ME KNOW
OR LESLIE LESLIE DOES SO MUCH I
THOUGHT, YOU KNOW, MAYBE
SOMEONE ELSE COULD SOME OF THIS
THAT'S WHAT WE'RE DOING FOR
NOW.
>> WE ARE WE ARE WORKING WE'RE
TRYING TO BE MORE EFFICIENT,
MORE YOU KNOW, PROFESSIONAL AS
POSSIBLE BUT GET THESE THINGS
PROCESSED AS QUICKLY AS
POSSIBLE AND THAT'S ALWAYS A
PROBLEM FOR A GROUP LIKE OURS.
BUT I THINK WE'RE GETTING
BETTER ALL THE TIME AND THIS IS
GOING TO MAKE A BIG DIFFERENCE.
>> YEAH, I THINK THIS IS A
MASSIVE STEP IN THE RIGHT
DIRECTION IN TERMS
OF EFFICIENCY.
I THINK THE CALENDAR BASED
SYSTEM WAS CERTAINLY INVENTIVE
BUT I THINK IN THIS INSTANCE
JUST GOING OFF OF GENERAL
CAPACITY BASED ON THE DAY TO
DAY OR PERHAPS THE WEEK WILL BE
MOST ADVANTAGEOUS AND
ADDITIONALLY AS WELL I THINK
THE PAIRING SYSTEM WILL BE VERY
HELPFUL BECAUSE I WOULD LOVE
THE OPPORTUNITY
MIANZHU THAT WE
COULD ROCK A CASE SO WELL.
SO I THINK THAT THAT WOULD BE A
WONDERFUL OPPORTUNITY TO I'M
VERY MUCH IN FAVOR OF THIS.
>> I LIKE THAT.
OK, WE DO NOT HAVE A CITY
ADMINISTRATOR.
I DON'T BUT I DO WHAT WE DO
HAVE HEATHER SIEFERT AND
PERHAPS WE SHOULD BEGIN WITH
HER PRESENTATION BECAUSE WE DO
HAVE A FAIRLY PACKED AGENDA
STATION IS ON YOUR MONITORS,
HEATHER, I CAN SCROLL THE
POWERPOINT FOR YOU.
>> OK, IS IT GOING TO GO TO
THEM ALSO?
YEAH.
SO THEY GET TO SEE CAN YOU HEAR
US OK.
>> OK YEAH I CAN HEAR YOU.
I CAN'T SEE WHAT YOU HAVE UP ON
THE SCREEN THOUGH SO I'M NOT
OUT OF SYNC WITH WHAT'S BEEN
SHOWN UP ON THE SCREEN.
>> I HAVE THE FIRST SLIDE.
OK GREAT THE TITLE THANK YOU
IDEAS.
>> GREAT THANK YOU FOR HAVING
ME TO THIS AND I'M SORRY I'M
NOT THERE IN PERSON.
I WISH THAT I COULD BE THERE
AND MEET ALL OF YOU BUT MY
SCHEDULE HAS BEEN A BIT OF A
SCRAMBLE THESE PAST COUPLE DAYS
SO I APPRECIATE YOU
ACCOMMODATING ME VIRTUALLY.
YEAH.
SO BASICALLY WHAT I WANTED TO
TALK TO YOU ABOUT IS THE
EQUITABLE ENGAGEMENT INITIATIVE
THAT WE'VE BEEN INVOLVED WITH
FOR THE PAST YEAR AND A HALF.
I DID THIS WORK AS AS AN
EMPLOYEE OF THE SYSTEMS
PLANNING UNIT.
I WAS A COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
SPECIALIST AS WELL AS A
PLANNER.
I'VE NOW SWITCHED OVER TO THE
HOUSING MISSION AS THE DIRECTOR
OF HOUSING AND ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT.
SO MAYBE PERHAPS I COME BACK
SOME DAY AND TALK ABOUT THE
INITIATIVES RELATED TO HOUSING
BUT FOR NOW I WANT TO TALK
ABOUT ENGAGEMENT AND THE WORK
THAT WE WERE DOING.
SO THE OVERALL GOAL OF THIS IF
YOU DON'T MIND GOING TO THE
NEXT SLIDE IS TO REALLY ADVANCE
EQUITY BECAUSE THE CITY
GOVERNMENT ITSELF AS WELL AS
THE COMMUNITY STATES THAT WE
VALUE EQUITY AND HAVING
MEANINGFUL AND JUST ENGAGEMENT
PROCESSES IS CRITICAL TO
ADVANCING EQUITY.
SO WHAT WE WANTED TO DO WITH
THIS IS TO DEVELOP A SHARED
DEFINITION OF WHAT EQUITY MEANS
AND THEN WHAT POLICIES,
GUIDELINES AND PRACTICES COULD
BE DEVELOPED FOR EXAMPLE TO BE
THE INCLUSIVE CITY THAT WE HOPE
TO BE.
SO WITH THAT WE STUDY STAFF IF
YOU DON'T MIND ADVANCING TO THE
NEXT SLIDE AND IT SHOULD BE
SHOWING THE DEMOGRAPHIC DATA
COVID THAT WE DID SOME PRE WORK
AND THIS IS ACTUALLY DATA GOING
BACK TO 2019.
SO BACK THEN MYSELF AND SOME
COLLEAGUES DECIDED WE NEEDED TO
UNDERSTAND OUR BASELINE OF WHO
WAS ENGAGING WITH THE CITY SO
WHO WAS ATTENDING OUR MEETINGS,
WHO WAS TAKING OUR SURVEYS?
WE HAD A GENERAL SENSE OF THAT
BUT WE WANTED TO GET SOME DATA
ABOUT THAT.
SO WE STARTED ADMINISTERING A
DEMOGRAPHIC SURVEY OUT TO
PEOPLE.
IT'S COMPLETELY OPTIONAL.
WE CAN'T FORCE PEOPLE TO TAKE
THE SURVEY SO NOT EVERYBODY AT
THE EVENTS TOOK THE SURVEY BUT
MANY PEOPLE DID AND THIS IS
WHAT WE CAME UP WITH.
SO GOING FROM 2019 SO THE YEAR
BEFORE THE PANDEMIC AND THEN
GOING IN TO THE PANDEMIC.
SO ALL OF OUR ONLINE MEETINGS
AND AS WELL AS THE SURVEYS THAT
WE ADMINISTERED AND AS YOU CAN
SEE THE DATA SHOWS THAT IT'S
NOT REALLY BECAUSE THE PEOPLE
THAT WE'RE ENGAGING WITH US,
IT'S NOT REALLY REPRESENTATIVE
OF THE COMMUNITY DOESN'T MATCH
WHAT WE ARE WHERE WE STAND WITH
OUR CENSUS DATA.
SO WE'RE WORKING TO REMEDY THAT
.
SO IF YOU DON'T MIND, GO TO THE
NEXT SLIDE WHICH COULD BE ABOUT
STAFF EDUCATION.
SO WHAT WE WANTED TO DO BEFORE
WE STARTED THIS WORK IS REALLY
TO GROUND OUR STAFF AND SO THIS
EFFORT IS A MULTI DISCIPLINE
AND MULTI DEPARTMENT EFFORT.
WE DIDN'T WANT IT JUST TO BE IN
OUR DEPARTMENT WHICH WAS
SYSTEMS PLANNING.
WE REALLY THOUGHT THAT THIS
SHOULD BE SPREAD OUT THROUGH
THE ENTIRE CITY SO THE OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY GOT INVOLVED.
WE HAD HUMAN RESOURCES GETTING
INVOLVED, OUR PLANNING
DEPARTMENT GETTING INVOLVED AND
AND LAURA GOT INVOLVED ONCE
THEY CAME ON BOARD, WHO ELSE
DID WE HAVE?
OUR OFFICE OF EMERGENCY
SERVICES CAME ON BOARD SO WE
HAD A NUMBER OF PEOPLE INVOLVED
IN THIS AND SO WE WANTED TO
EDUCATE ALL OF OUR STAFF WHERE
WE'RE AT RIGHT NOW.
AND SO WE LOOKED AT WHAT WE
WERE ALREADY DOING SO WE LOOKED
AT EXISTING CITY PRACTICES AND
THEN LOCAL AND REGIONAL
CONDITIONS RELATED TO EQUITY
AND STARTED EXPLORING WHAT
OTHER COMMUNITIES ARE DOING.
SO WHAT ARE SOME OF THE
PROMISING PRACTICES THAT OTHER
PLACES ARE DOING TO ADVANCE
EQUITY TO DOVE INTO OUR CURRENT
PRACTICES?
A LITTLE BIT MORE ON THE NEXT
SLIDE.
WHAT WE'RE DOING CURRENTLY IS
WE HAVE A COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
TOOL KIT WHICH HAS BEEN AROUND
FOR ABOUT TEN YEARS SO IT'S
ACTUALLY BEEN IN EXISTENCE FOR
QUITE A WHILE BUT IT WASN'T
UNIVERSAL REALLY APPLIED
THROUGHOUT OUR ORGANIZATION
WHAT THE TOOL KIT OFFERS IS A
SET OF QUESTIONS FOR PEOPLE TO
THINK THROUGH IN TERMS OF HOW
TO APPROACH AN ENGAGEMENT EVENT
OR HOW TO SCALE IT
APPROPRIATELY FOR WHAT THE
TOPIC IS.
DOES IT IMPACT THE ENTIRE
COMMUNITY?
IS THAT NEIGHBORHOOD BASED?
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE QUESTIONS
INVOLVED.
WE LOOKED AT OUR DEMOGRAPHIC
DATA COLLECTION SO WHAT I JUST
SHOWED YOU JUST A MOMENT AGO WE
LOOKED AT STAFF TRAINING.
SO IN RECENT YEARS WE'VE DONE
SOME STAFF TRAINING WHERE WE'VE
HIRE PEOPLE TO COME IN FROM THE
INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF PUBLIC PARTICIPATION TO
TRAIN STAFF ON ENGAGEMENT.
SO ESSENTIALLY TRAINING PEOPLE
HOW TO DO ENGAGEMENT PLANS AND
TO THINK THROUGH ENGAGEMENT.
AND THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
STARTED RIGHT BEFORE THE
PANDEMIC HAPPENED AND SO IT WAS
CUT SHORT A BIT BUT WE HOPE TO
REVIVE THAT AS WELL.
WE HAVE A YOUTH ENGAGEMENT
EFFORT.
SO IN THE APPENDIX OF THE
REPORT, IF YOU'VE HAD A CHANCE
TO LOOK THROUGH THAT THAT TALKS
ABOUT OUR YOUTH ENGAGEMENT
EFFORT THAT WE DID THAT WAS
ACTUALLY A CLASS THAT I RAN
AGAIN BEFORE THE PANDEMIC WITH
COMMUNITY HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS
TO STUDENTS YOUTH LEARN HOW TO
BE CIVICALLY INVOLVED THAT THEY
ACTUALLY HAVE A ROLE TO PLAY IN
SHAPING THEIR OWN COMMUNITY.
I WAS HOPING TO EXPAND THAT
PROGRAM TO OTHER HIGH SCHOOLS
AND PERHAPS EVEN YOUNGER AGES.
BUT AGAIN LOOKING AND THEN WE
ALSO HAVE A DEVELOPER PUBLIC
PARTICIPATION REQUIREMENT WHICH
SEEMS THAT THAT SHOULD JUST BE
A GIVEN.
BUT ACTUALLY ANN ARBOR GOES A
LITTLE BIT ABOVE AND BEYOND
MOST COMMUNITIES REQUIRING
THAT.
SO WE DO HAVE A NUMBER
OF THINGS THAT WE'RE ALREADY
DOING RELATED TO ENGAGEMENT.
BUT OF COURSE WE CAN THERE'S
ALWAYS ROOM FOR IMPROVEMENT AND
THAT'S WHAT WE SOUGHT TO DO AND
THE NEXT SLIDE AND I CAN'T
REMEMBER IF I LEFT THIS IN HERE
BUT THERE MIGHT BE A FIGHT ON
THE ENGAGEMENT THE YES.
YUP.
AND I ACTUALLY WANT TO GET BACK
TO THAT A LITTLE BIT LATER.
SO IF YOU DON'T MIND SKIPPING
THAT FOR NOW, I'LL GET TO THE
STEERING COMMITTEE WHICH IS THE
NEXT SLIDE.
>> SO WE REALLY WANTED TO TURN
THIS PROCESS OVER TO THE
COMMUNITY AND GET REALLY HAVE
THE COMMUNITY DRIVE THE
PRODUCER
.
DO YOU THINK IT SHOULD BE LONG
TERM?
YOU NEED TO RECONNECT WITH HER
WHETHER YOU WANT TO SEE IF YOU
CAN COME BACK.
SHE'S PROBABLY SPEED SHE
DOESN'T KNOW
WHAT YOU HAVE NOW.
YES, I THINK SHE'S JUST SHE CAN
COME BACK WHILE SHE'S COMING
BACK.
LET ME MENTION THAT DENISE WAS
KIND ENOUGH TO SEND AROUND SOME
INFORMATION ABOUT THE CAMP THE
COUNTY ADVISORY COUNCIL ON
REPARATIONS.
OH, HERE SHE IS.
OH, OK.
WE'LL GET BACK TO THIS.
>> ALL RIGHT.
ALL RIGHT.
OK, WELL THE PROBLEM IS THAT WE
LIVE WITH WE SENT OUT FIRES TO
HOUSING COMMISSION SITES.
WE ACTUALLY SOMETIME AFTER
MEALS ON WHEELS SO THAT'S A NEW
PARTNER THAT WE ENGAGED WITH.
WE PUT IT OUT FOR A COMMUNITY
NEWSLETTER EMAIL DISTRIBUTION
LIST FOR SCHOOL.
SO WE WORKED WITH THE SCHOOLS
TO PASS IT OUT SO KIDS COULD
TAKE IT HOME TO THE PARENTS OR
WE WERE ACTUALLY LOOKING FOR
REPRESENTATIVES AS WELL SO
PEOPLE HIGH SCHOOL AGE AND
OLDER COULD APPLY TO BE PART
OF THIS.
AND WE ALSO CREATED A VIDEO
KIND OF A PSA THING THAT WE
WORKED WITH CTM TO DISTRIBUTE.
SO WE GOT 80 APPLICANTS WHICH
WAS WAY MORE THAN WE EXPECTED
TO WHICH SHOWS REALLY THAT THIS
IS SOMETHING THAT THE COMMUNITY
IS CRAVING.
WE FELT THAT EDDIE PEOPLE
WORKING WITH A STEERING
COMMITTEE OF EVENING PEOPLE
WOULD BE A LITTLE BIT UNWIELDY
FOR US.
WE WEREN'T REALLY PREPARED TO
DO THAT SO WE NARROWED IT DOWN
TO THIRTY REPRESENTATIVES.
THAT WAS STILL A LOT OF PEOPLE
BUT WE DIDN'T REALLY WANT TO
CUT IT ANY FURTHER.
WE MET MONTHLY FOR ABOUT A YEAR
AND A HALF AND WE STARTED OFF
WITH DEFINING EQUITY AND OUR
CORE VALUES AND THEN DEVELOPED
RECOMMENDATIONS WHICH I'LL GET
THEM.
SO THE EQUITY DEFINITION THAT
THE GROUP CAME UP WITH IS HERE.
WHAT SHOULD BE ON YOUR SCREEN
IF YOU DON'T MIND GOING TO THE
NEXT SLIDE AND WHAT THE GROUP
CAME UP WITH IS THAT EQUITY IS
THE FAIR AND JUST PRACTICES
THAT ENSURE ALL COMMUNITY
MEMBERS CAN THRIVE.
EQUITABLE PRACTICES ACKNOWLEDGE
AND ADDRESS STRUCTURAL
INEQUITIES HISTORIC AND CURRENT
THAT ADVANTAGE AND DISADVANTAGE
OTHERS AND THAT IS
DISTINGUISHED FROM THE QUALITY
WHICH IS TREATING EVERYONE AS
IF THEIR EXPERIENCES ARE THE
EXACT SAME.
SO FROM
THERE WE REALLY ENGAGED
IN A SHARED LEARNING EXPERIENCE
TOGETHER AND WE REVIEWED AGAIN
WHERE WE'RE AT AS A COMMUNITY
AND WITH THIS BY EXPLORING THE
OPPORTUNITY AND THAT'S AND
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT THE
COUNTY HAS PUT TOGETHER.
IF YOU ARE AWARE THAT I'D LOVE
TO SHARE THAT LINK WITH YOU
BECAUSE THAT REALLY SHOWS A
MAPPING.
GIVE ME AN GEOGRAPHIC
DISTRIBUTION OF WHERE THERE'S
MORE OPPORTUNITIES THAN SO WE
LOOKED AT THE OPPORTUNITY
INDEX.
WE REVIEWED OUR DEMOGRAPHIC
DATA.
WE REVIEWED THE ENGAGEMENT
TOOLKIT WITH THE GROUP FOR THEM
TO REVIEW AND CRITIQUE WE
REFLECTED ON ENGAGEMENT EFFORTS
THAT THE CITY WAS CURRENTLY
ENGAGED IN.
SO WE DID A REVIEW OF THE
OUTCOME FUNDING EFFORT AND
ENGAGEMENT EFFORT THAT WAS
INVOLVED WITH THAT AND THE GOOD
THE BAD AND UGLY WITH THAT WE
LOOKED AT LAND USE PLANNING SO
WE HAD OUR PLANNERS COME IN AND
TALK ABOUT THAT AND WHAT'S ON
THE HORIZON FOR THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN THAT'S
COMING UP.
WE LOOKED AT AFFORDABLE
HOUSING.
WE HAD JENNIFER COME IN AND
TALK ABOUT THAT.
WE TALKED ABOUT CITY HIRING
PRACTICES.
WE TALKED ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY
AND THEN OF COURSE GETTING INTO
THE MEANINGFUL BLOCKS OF ARE
THE BUILDING BLOCKS
OF MEANINGFUL ENGAGEMENT.
>> SO ON THE NEXT PAGE THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT THE GROUP CAME
UP WITH THAT WE DIDN'T END UP
PUTTING IN THE REPORT.
BUT I THOUGHT THIS WAS A USEFUL
ANALOGY THAT WE REALLY NEEDED
EQUITABLE ENGAGEMENT TO CREATE
GOOD FOOTING TO ADDRESS THESE
OTHER TOPICS WHICH ARE
IDENTIFIED AS THE SO HOW CAN
THE GOOD FOOTING OF ENGAGEMENT
INFLUENCE THESE TOPICS?
AND SO FROM THERE I'LL JUST CUT
TO THE CHASE AND TALK ABOUT THE
RECOMMENDATIONS THAT THE GROUP
CAME UP WITH.
SO ON THE NEXT SLIDE YOU CAN
SEE OUR FIRST RECOMMENDATION
AND THE PURPOSE BEHIND THIS
RECOMMENDATION WHICH IS
DEMONSTRATE THE CITY IS
COMMITTED TO ADVANCING EQUITY
IS BECAUSE PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN
MINORITY AND MARGINALIZED WILL
NOT ENGAGE WITH THE CITY IF THE
CITY IS NOT REPRESENTATIVE.
WE'RE CLEARLY COMMITTED TO
SUPPORTING EQUITY SO BUT I'LL
JUST QUICKLY GO THROUGH SORRY
DID SOMEBODY A QUESTION I HEARD
SOMEBODY SPEAK NOW PROBABLY ON
THE RIGHT SLIDE MY
RECOMMENDATION.
>> YEAH.
RECOMMENDATIONS OK
RECOMMENDATION ONE.
SO UNDER THAT IS THAT THE CITY
INTENTIONALLY HIRES MINORITIES
THE INDIVIDUALS ESPECIALLY IN
HIGHER LEVEL POSITION POSITIONS
NEVER TO CREATE TRANSPARENT AND
MEANINGFUL PATHWAYS FOR
PROMOTION OF MINORITIES
INDIVIDUALS NO THREE POINT
RACIALLY AND ETHNICALLY
MINORITIES CANDIDATES
REPRESENTING IMPACTED
COMMUNITIES PERSPECTIVES TO
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS NO.
FOUR CITY COUNCIL DOUBTS AND
ENFORCES POLICIES THAT ENSURES
DECISION MAKING BE EQUITABLE.
NO FIVE BE AUTHENTIC.
SIX BUILD TRUST AND
TRANSPARENCY FOR CONTINUOUS
OUTREACH AND RELATIONSHIP
BUILDING.
>> AND ON THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE
SECOND RECOMMENDATION WHICH
PROVIDE BOTH AMPLE AND TARGETED
INVITATIONS TO ENGAGEMENT
OPPORTUNITY AND THE PURPOSE
BEHIND THIS RECOMMENDATION IS
THAT PEOPLE NEED TO BE MADE
AWARE OF OPPORTUNITIES IN
ADDITION TO FEELING WELCOME AND
VALUED ADDING PAGE MINIVAN'S
AND UNDER THIS WE HAVE
TRANSLATE INTO GREAT MEETING
NOTICES AND CONTENT ADDRESSING
THE MOST COMMON LANGUAGE IS
FIRST TO USE NONTRADITIONAL
WAYS OF GETTING THE WORD OUT.
SO AGAIN GOING BACK TO THINGS
LIKE FLIERS, GETTING THE WORD
OUT FOR INFORMAL NETWORKS
ACTIVELY RECRUITING BIPAC TO
PARTICIPATE IN ENGAGEMENT
EVENTS AND THEN FIVE CREATE AN
ONLINE ENGAGEMENT HUB THAT IS
EASY TO FIND AND EASY TO USE.
BUT THIRD RECOMMENDATION ON THE
NEXT SLIDE IS TO PROVIDE THE
RESOURCES NECESSARY FOR YOUR
STAFF TO CONDUCT MEANINGFUL
ENGAGEMENT AND UNDER THAT WE
HAVE ENSURED A BUDGET FOR
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND MAKE
SURE THAT IT IS SCALED
APPROPRIATELY TO THE ISSUE
NUMBER TO CONTINUE AND INCREASE
STAFF TRAINING AND CONDUCTING
QUALITY ENGAGEMENT.
NUMBER THREE IS TO CONTINUE TO
USE AND EVOLVE THIS COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT TO A NUMBER
OF COURSE TO SUITABLE
MEASUREMENTS AND MILESTONES FOR
SUCCESSFUL ENGAGEMENT AND ON
THE NEXT WE HAVE THE FOURTH
RECOMMENDATION WHICH IS TO MAKE
ENGAGEMENT EVENT MORE
ACCESSIBLE AND ATTRACTIVE.
AND THE PURPOSE BEHIND THIS IS
THAT IS TO HAVE ENGAGEMENT
EVENTS THAT ARE EASILY
ACCESSIBLE, SEEM IMPORTANT AND
THAT DO NOT FEEL HOSTILE THAT
WHICH HAS BEEN HEARING PEOPLE
FROM ENGAGING SO NO ONE WILL
TYPE OF MEETINGS AT DIFFERENT
TIMES MAKING CARTOONS
AVAILABLE.
WE HAVE FOUND SINCE THE
PANDEMIC THAT PEOPLE ARE REALLY
ACTUALLY LIKING THE ABILITY TO
COME IN THROUGH ZOOME INSTEAD
OF HAVING TO COME DOWNTOWN COME
TO CITY HALL MAKES IT A LITTLE
BIT EASIER FOR PEOPLE YOU KNOW
YOU CAN HAVE YOUR KIDS RUNNING
AROUND YOU, YOU CAN BE EATING,
YOU CAN BE IN YOUR PAJAMAS SO
PEOPLE DO LIKE THE HYPERMEDIA
NUMBER TO PROVIDE VARIOUS WAYS
TO PROVIDE INPUT TO AVOID
DOMINANT NARRATIVES FROM TAKING
OVER NO.
THREE USE IN ENFORCED GROUND
RULES THAT SUPPORT HONORING THE
DIGNITY OF INDIVIDUALS.
AND I'M SEEING THAT SOME WORDS
HAVE BEEN CUT OFF.
I APOLOGIZE FOR THAT.
I CAN SEND A REVISED COPY
OF THIS PRESENTATION TO YOU.
NO FOR AIRTRAIN MEETING
FACILITATORS AND MODERATORS
CREATE SPACE TO HEAL WOUNDS.
NUMBER FIVE CLEARLY COMMUNICATE
THE DECISION THE DECISION
MAKING PROCESS WHO MAKES THE
DECISION THE LEVEL OF INFLUENCE
THE COMMUNITY HAS OVER THE
DECISION.
AND NUMBER SIX TAKE TIME TO
CELEBRATE AND EXPERIENCE JOY AS
A COMMUNITY
.
>> SO THOSE ARE THE
RECOMMENDATIONS AND THEN
LOOKING AT PROMISING PRACTICES
AGAIN, THIS IS THE RESEARCH
THAT WE PUT INTO THIS SEE WHAT
OTHER COMMUNITIES ARE DOING
THAT HAVE BEEN SUCCESSFUL AND
LED TO MORE EQUITABLE
ENGAGEMENT.
ONE OF THE BIG THINGS IS
COMMUNITY LIAISONS AND THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT WE'VE ALREADY
PUT A BUDGET REQUEST IN TO DO
SO FOR PEOPLE TO BECOME
LIAISON'S AS PART OF OUR
PROJECTS, ESPECIALLY OUR
CAPITAL PROJECTS GOING FORWARD.
UM, AND THEN MEASURING
PARTICIPANT SATISFACTION.
SO ALWAYS CHECKING BACK IN THE
COMMUNITY TO SEE HOW THE
PROCESS IS GOING.
I WENT WHAT WE CAN DO BETTER
THE NEXT TIME USING A MIX
OF MEETING STYLE SO NOT ALWAYS
THE TRADITIONAL TOWN HALL BUT
HAVING DIFFERENT WAYS
OF ENGAGING WITH PEOPLE.
A LOT OF PEOPLE DON'T REALLY
LIKE TO COME TO A MEETING WHERE
YOU HAVE TO COME UP TO A
PODIUM.
IT FEELS VERY INTIMIDATING.
SO HAVING MEETINGS STYLES WHERE
ENGAGEMENT IS DISPERSED
THROUGHOUT THE ROOM WHERE
PEOPLE CAN GO TO DIFFERENT
STATIONS AND IT'S NOT JUST ONE
PERSON STANDING THERE TALKING
AND PASSING THE MIC TO THE NEXT
PERSON.
THE NEXT ONE IS HAVING
INFORMATION KIOSKS THROUGHOUT
THE CITY.
SO WE'RE REACHING OUT TO ALL
OVER PLACES IN THE CITY.
SO REALLY GETTING OUT TO PEOPLE
WHICH IS A LESSON LEARNED OVER
AND OVER AGAIN THAT WE REALLY
NEED TO GO TO WHERE PEOPLE ARE
AT, NOT JUST EXPECT THEM TO
COME TO WHERE WE'RE AT.
AND ONE WAY TO DO THIS IS
HAVING INFORMATION KIOSKS
AROUND THE CITY WHERE PEOPLE
CAN JUST FIND INFORMATION,
PROTECT PERHAPS TAKE A SURVEY
AT THE KIOSK DOING SURVEYS
CALLING PEOPLE REALLY LIKE OUR
SURVEYS.
THAT SEEMS TO BE AN EASY WAY
FOR PEOPLE TO ENGAGE SO BECAUSE
IT CAN JUST BE DISTRIBUTED IN A
VARIETY OF DIFFERENT WAYS AND
OUR ENGAGEMENT HUB.
SO THIS IS WHAT I WANTED TO
DOVE INTO A LITTLE BIT FURTHER.
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT WE'VE
ALREADY GETTING WE'RE ALREADY
GETTING STARTED IF YOU DON'T
MIND GOING TO THE NEXT SLIDE.
SO THIS IS AN EXAMPLE OF AN
ENGAGEMENT THAT SHOWS A LANDING
PAGE WHERE THAT PRESENTS TO THE
PUBLIC HOW HOW THEY CAN ENGAGE.
SO IT PROVIDES ALL THE
DIFFERENT PROJECTS THAT PEOPLE
CAN BECOME INVOLVED IN AS WELL
AS DIFFERENT VOLUNTEER
ACTIVITIES AND WAYS TO CONTACT
THE CITY.
THIS SEEMS LIKE SOMETHING
THAT'S REALLY BASIC BUT WE
DON'T REALLY HAVE ANYTHING LIKE
THIS IN PLACE THAT'S AS ROBUST
WE WHAT WE ENVISION AS
SOMETHING THAT PEOPLE CAN JUST
GO TO AND JUST HAVE ALL THE
INFORMATION AT THEIR FINGERTIPS
ABOUT HOW TO ENGAGE WITH THE
CITY AND MAKE IT REALLY EASY
FOR THEM.
SO WE WORK WITH A TEAM OF U
OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY TO EXPLORE
THIS AND LOOK AT THE BEST
PRACTICES FROM OTHER
COMMUNITIES ON THIS AND THEN
WE'RE ALREADY MAKING SOME
REVISIONS TO OUR EXISTING
WEBSITE.
BUT WHAT WE HOPE TO DO IS TO
HIRE A VENDOR TO SET UP
SOMETHING LIKE WHAT YOU'RE
SEEING HERE ON THE SCREEN AGAIN
TO MAKE IT VERY VISIBLE AND
EASY FOR PEOPLE TO ENGAGE WITH
AND THAT'S REALLY IT FOR
PRESENTATION.
I DIDN'T WANT TO TAKE TOO MUCH
TIME ON YOUR AGENDA BECAUSE I
KNOW THAT YOU HAD A TIGHT
AGENDA.
BUT IF ANYBODY HAS ANY
QUESTIONS, I'M HAPPY TO GO OVER
ANYTHING AND AND A LITTLE BIT
MORE DETAIL.
THANK YOU, HEATHER.
AND YOUR QUESTIONS ARE THERE
QUESTIONS?
>> OH YES.
I HAVE A QUESTION.
THIS IS KEY TO COULON.
COMMISSIONER, COULD YOU GIVE ME
SOME CONTEXT?
I THINK I AM CONFUSED.
IS THERE A LARGER DIVERSITY
EQUITY AND INCLUSION SORT
OF PROGRAM OF WHICH ENGAGED YOU
KNOW IS ONE SECTOR LIKE IS
THERE ONE THAT IS EXAMINING
HIRING PRACTICES, SALARIES,
RECRUITMENT, YOU KNOW, SO ONE
THAT SORT OF INTERNALLY FOCUSED
ON THE ORGANIZATION?
SO THAT WOULD BE ONE ANOTHER
ONE WOULD BE AN IMPACT
ASSESSMENT TO SEE HOW
HISTORICALLY AN OPPORTUNITY
POLICIES AND FUNDING PROGRAMS
HAVE IMPACTED DIFFERENT
COMMUNITIES.
SO
BOTH OF THOSE SORT OF GLOBAL
ASSESSMENTS TEND TO BE
CONDUCTED, YOU KNOW, SOMETIMES
SIMILAR PREVIOUSLY WITH THE
INITIATION OF KIND OF EFFORTS
THAT YOU DESCRIBED.
BUT IT DOESN'T SOUND LIKE
THAT'S HAPPENING.
>> IS IT WRAPPED UP JUST YEAH.
NOW IT'S ON THE HORIZON.
SO WE DO HAVE OUR OFFICE
OF EQUITY WHICH LAURA OR YOU
HAVEN'T MET THEM IS WAS HIRED
TO TO LEAD THAT AND SO THEY
CAME ON BOARD AS THIS WAS
ALREADY IN PROCESS.
BUT I KNOW UNDER THAT OFFICE
THEY'LL BE LOOKING AT THINGS
LIKE HIRING PRACTICE AND THE
ORGANIZATION IN GENERAL AND HOW
WE ARE WE ARE ADVANCING EQUITY
JUST AS AN ENTIRE ORGANIZATION
IN THIS WOULD BE THIS WILL
EVENTUALLY KIND FALL UNDER THAT
THIS WAS IT'S KIND OF ITS OWN
INITIATIVE AND AND IT REALLY
CAME UP FROM STAFF AND SOME
COUNCIL MEMBERS OF OVER A YEAR
AGO THAT WAS REALLY JUST KIND
OF QUESTIONING HOW THE
DECISIONS WERE MADE AND WHO WAS
INFLUENCING THE DECISIONS.
AND SO WE WANTED TO JUST
ADDRESS THAT BECAUSE WE YOU
KNOW AGAIN WHAT WE FOUND WITH
OUR DEMOGRAPHICS THAT IT WAS
THE SAME PROFILE OF PEOPLE THAT
WERE COMING TO OUR MEETINGS AND
REALLY HAVING A LOT
OF INFLUENCE NOT JUST THE SAME
PROFILE BUT IN MANY CASES IT
WAS THE SAME PEOPLE THAT WERE
COMING INTO THE MEETINGS AND SO
WE WANTED TO FIND WAYS THAT
WOULD DISPERSE THAT INFLUENCE
AND REALLY MAYBE EVEN WAIT IT
THE OTHER WAY TO MAKE IT
ELEVATING THE VOICES THAT
HAVEN'T BEEN HEARD IN THE PAST
AND IN PEOPLE THAT WERE MOST
AFFECTED BY PROJECTS AS FAR AS
THE IMPACT ANALYSIS THAT HAS
NOT BEEN DONE TO MY KNOWLEDGE.
I THINK THAT WOULD BE AN
EXCELLENT THING TO PURSUE.
WE KNOW JUST VERY GENERALLY AND
THIS IS JUST FROM MY
PERSPECTIVE AS A PLANNER WE
KNOW SOME OF THE FIRMS THAT
PLANNING PRACTICES HAVE DONE IN
THE PAST AND HOW THAT HAS
IMPACTED ANN ARBOR GENERALLY IN
TERMS OF SPATIAL SEGREGATION.
BUT I DON'T THINK THAT ANYBODY
AT THE CITY HAS DONE A REAL
IMPACT ANALYSIS AND LOOKING AT
OUR POLICIES IN PLACE, WHAT HAS
THE WHAT HAS THE OUTCOME
OF THEM OVER TIME SO I REMEMBER
READING I DON'T KNOW IF OTHER
FOLKS DO I THINK IT WAS LAST
YEAR A STUDY DONE ON THE RACIAL
DISTRIBUTION WITHIN CITY HALL
CITY GOVERNMENT AND I NOTED FOR
INSTANCE, THAT YOUR GROUP
TALKED ABOUT LAND USE POLICY
WHICH I THINK IS REALLY RIGHT.
>> YEAH.
AND I ALSO REMEMBER THAT THE
PLANNING DEPARTMENT I DON'T
THINK HAS ANY FOR INSTANCE,
AFRICAN-AMERICAN STAFF AT LEAST
NOT WHEN THIS ARTICLE WAS
WRITTEN THOSE KINDS OF , YOU
KNOW, ISSUES HOW WOULD THEY
LIKE IT SAID SOMETHING WE WOULD
BRING TO YOUR OFFICE IF PEOPLE
IN THE COMMUNITY WANTED TO SEE
AN RFP ISSUED.
>> WHAT WHAT SHOULD WE DO?
YEAH, THAT'S A GREAT QUESTION.
YEAH.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT HAPPENED
DURING OUR TIME AS A COMMITTEE
WAS VERY EARLY ON WAS AN
ARTICLE CAME OUT AND MAYBE
THAT'S WHAT YOU'RE REFERRING TO
THAT WAS SHOWING THAT THE CITY
CITY STAFF IS PRIMARILY WHITE,
ESPECIALLY PEOPLE WHO ARE IN
HIGHER POSITIONS.
SO THAT'S SOMETHING THAT WE
TALKED ABOUT EXTENSIVELY WAS
HOW CAN YOU REALLY TRUST THE
CITY?
YOU KNOW, IF IT'S NOT IF THE
CITY STAFF ISN'T SENTIDO AND SO
THAT'S WHY WE GOT INTO TALKING
ABOUT HIRING PRACTICES SO MUCH
AND SO THAT WOULD REALLY BE
MORE OR TOM'S OFFICE TO TALK TO
ABOUT THAT AS FAR AS ISSUING
OUR PS EACH DEPARTMENT THOSE
THAT THEMSELVES THEY GO THROUGH
OUR PROCUREMENT OFFICE.
BUT I THINK THERE IS ROOM TO
HAVE CONVERSATIONS ABOUT
STANDARDS OF HOW TO HOW TO
WRITE AN RFP TO ATTRACT
CONSULTANTS THAT WILL REALLY
HAVE A STRONG EQUITY LICENSE.
AND I KNOW THAT WE HAVE BEEN
PUTTING MORE AND MORE LANGUAGE
IN THERE.
BUT I YOU KNOW, AGAIN THERE'S
ALWAYS ROOM FOR IMPROVEMENT AND
WE DON'T HAVE A STANDARD THAT'S
BEING EMPHASIZED ACROSS THE
ORGANIZATION AND WE ARE IN
TOUCH WITH LAURA.
WE'RE GOING TO HEAR FROM HER
SOON.
AGAIN, WE'RE IN TOUCH WITH
LAURA AND WE WILL WE WE WILL
HAVE WE WILL HAVE HER YOU KNOW
I CAN'T YES.
>> WE ARE IN TOUCH WITH HER
WITH LAURA OR IS FOURTH OR TEN
OR TWELVE AND I THINK THERE
WILL BE SOMETHING WE WILL
ADDRESS WITH HER.
YES, I THINK OK AND SO THIS IS
DIANA.
>> HI HEATHER AND I HAVE THE
HONOR OF ACTUALLY BEING A
MEMBER OF THIS GROUP AND SO IT
WAS A GROUP OF THIRTY OF US WAS
A VERY DIVERSE GROUP OF PEOPLE
FROM THROUGHOUT THE COMMUNI ALL
DIFFERENT AGES, ALL DIFFERENT
BACKGROUNDS, ALL DIFFERENT
RACES, ETHNICITIES, ABILITIES
AND WE WERE REALLY MAINLY
HEATHER TRIED TO KEEP US ON
TASK WHICH WAS SOMETIMES
DIFFICULT TO REALLY FOCUS ON
HOW HOW DO WE GET THE MESSAGE
OUT RIGHT AS OR HOW DOES THE
CITY GET THE MESSAGE TO CONNECT
TO OUR COMMUNITY AND YOU KNOW,
I LOOKED AT IT KIND OF TWO
WAYS.
ONE IS AS A MEMBER OF THE
COMMUNITY.
RIGHT.
LIKE HOW DO I GET THE
INFORMATION?
HOW DO I LEARN ABOUT THE HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION AS A CITIZEN
OR HOW DO I LEARN ABOUT WHAT
THE MAYOR IS DOING OR THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR?
BUT THEN THERE'S ALSO THE PIECE
OF YOU KNOW, THINGS LIKE THE
THINGS YOU HEAR IN THE MEDIA OR
DIFFERENT THINGS LIKE THAT.
AND SO IT IT'S KIND OF REALLY
ENGAGING THE COMMUNITY AND
LEARNING ABOUT THE DIFFERENT
WAYS THAT THE PEOPLE IN THAT
GROUP AND THEIR COMMUNITIES AND
WHERE THEY'RE AT, HOW THEY WANT
TO BE COMMUNICATED WITH.
>> AND SO IT WAS VERY
INTERESTING BECAUSE I THINK
WE'VE TALKED ABOUT IT HERE AS
AS A GROUP, YOU KNOW, HOW DO WE
ADVERTISE THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION?
HOW DO WE GET INTO THE
COMMUNITY SO THAT PEOPLE KNOW
WE EXIST?
>> AND SO IT WAS IT WAS KIND
OF A LEARNING OPPORTUNITY FOR
ME IN TWO WAYS RIGHT.
YOU KNOW, BECAUSE I NEVER
THOUGHT ABOUT YOU KNOW, PUTTING
UP A FLIER IN A COMMUNITY
CENTER AS BEING SOMETHING THAT
IS SO IMPORTANT TO MINORITY
POPULATIONS.
BUT THERE ARE PEOPLE THAT WERE
SPEAKING ON THIS ALL THAT I WAS
ON FOR THE LAST YEAR AND A HALF
WHO ARE SAYING YES, WE NEED
THIS.
>> YES, WE NEED THE ZOOME
CALLS.
YES, WE WE DON'T WANT TO GO TO
A PODIUM AND STAND THERE ARE
WE'RE MET WITH HOSTILITY AND
STUFF LIKE THAT.
>> AND SO IT WAS REALLY I MEAN
I THINK THE RECOMMENDATIONS
THAT WE CAME UP WITH AND I
CAN'T EVEN SAY WE BECAUSE I'M
NOT A PERSON WHO IS TYPICALLY
MARGINALIZED AT MEETINGS LIKE
THIS.
PLUS I'M PRETTY SASSY AS YOU
ALL KNOW.
SO I DON'T HAVE ANY PROBLEM
GOING UP AND STANDING AT A
PODIUM.
BUT I THINK THAT, YOU KNOW, WE
ALL KNOW THAT THERE ARE PEOPLE
THAT ARE AND SO IT'S IT'S JUST
IT WAS JUST REALLY INTERESTING
BUT WE WERE REALLY FOCUSING ON
WORKING ON TRYING TO MAKE THE
CITY AWARE THAT HAVING THESE
MEETINGS IN A FORUM LIKE THIS
IS NOT GO AWAY.
IT'S NOT THE ONLY WAY AND WE'VE
GOT TO DO BETTER.
WE'VE REALLY GOT TO GET OUT
THERE AND GET INTO THE
COMMUNITY.
WE'VE GOT TO STOP JUST POSTING
STUFF ON THE WEBSITE.
AND SO I HOPE THAT THE WORK
OF THIS GROUP WILL AMPLIFY
THAT.
I DO THINK THAT ALL OF THE
THINGS YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
STILL NEED TO BE ADDRESSED BUT
IT WASN'T SOMETHING THAT WE HAD
THE BANDWIDTH TO TO TALK ABOUT
OR ADDRESS.
IT WASN'T REALLY OUR LANE LANE.
WELL, LISTEN, I APPLAUD YOUR
EFFORTS PARTICIPATORY DEMOCRACY
RIGHT NOT TO BE UNDERESTIMATED
IN TERMS OF ITS IMPACT ON THE
POLICIES THAT ARE CREATED .
SO I WONDERFUL THE REPORT IN
THE WORK THAT YOU'VE DONE.
SO THANK YOU.
I JUST THOUGHT OH, THIS MUST BE
ONE KILLER OF SIX OR SEVEN
PILLARS SO WE JUST HAVE TO GO
OFF AND START THOSE AS YOU GUYS
HAVE BEGUN.
>> SO THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
I HAD A QUESTION FOR HEATHER.
I GUESS I WAS WONDERING IF YOU
COULD GIVE OUR COMMISSION
RECOMMENDS OPTIONS ABOUT
CHANGES TO OUR OWN PROCEDURES
BASED ON WHAT YOU FOUND WHAT
WOULD BE KIND OF YOUR TOP THREE
SUGGESTIONS FOR THINGS FOR US
TO CONSIDER?
>> YEAH, I THINK NO ONE IS
REALLY GETTING THE WORD OUT AND
DOING IT IN A VARIETY OF WAYS
THAT JUST GOOD
SOCIAL MEDIA
RELYING ON THAT BECAUSE I DON'T
THINK A LOT OF PEOPLE KNOW
ABOUT THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION AND THE WORK THAT
YOU'RE DOING SO DEFINITELY
GETTING THE WORD OUT AND AND
YOU KNOW, THERE'S REALLY
CREATIVE WAYS THAT YOU COULD BE
DOING THAT AND THEN THE OTHER
WAY, YOU KNOW, THIS IS A LITTLE
BIT HARD WITH THE STRUCTURE
BECAUSE IT'S JUST KIND
OF STRUCTURED THIS WAYS IS THAT
THIS KIND OF ROOM SET UP IS
INTIMIDATING.
CAN BE INTIMIDATING TO A LOT
OF PEOPLE.
IT'S IT'S HARD TO CHANGE THIS
BECAUSE YOU HAVE SET UP IN THIS
ROOM THE WAY IT IS SO THAT IT
CAN BE DONE IN A HYBRID WAY SO
THAT THAT'S THE GOOD NEWS .
BUT IDEALLY IF THERE IS WAYS
JUST TO MAKE IT I DON'T KNOW,
JUST KIND OF A DIFFERENT ROOM
SET UP OR TO MOVE LOCATIONS
THAT WOULD BE HELPFUL, I THINK
THAT'S VERY HARD WITH OUR
BOARDS COMMISSIONS FOR THE
REASONS I SAID BUT MAYBE
THINKING FOR WAYS LIKE THAT AND
THEN REALLY I THINK I'M GOING
TO REFER TO MY REPORT LET'S
BRING IT UP NOT MY REPORT BUT
THE COMMITTEE'S REPORT BECAUSE
THERE'S A LOT MORE DETAIL IN
HERE.
>> SO I ENCOURAGE YOU TO READ
THROUGH IT IF YOU CAN
RECRUITING PEOPLE TO BE ON YOUR
BOARD AND COMMISSION ALWAYS
LOOKING FOR THAT PEOPLE WHO
HAVE DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVES AND
CAN PROVIDE INSIGHT THERE AND
THEN IF YOU DO ANY SORT
OF ENGAGEMENT EVENT ONE THING
THAT I DIDN'T GO DEEPLY INTO IS
REALLY DEVELOPING COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT PLANS WITH CARE AND
MAYBE PLAYING A ROLE WITH OUT
WITH A CITY, A STRONGER ROLE
WITH THAT AND WITH SOME OF THE
BIGGER PROJECTS THAT ARE COMING
OUT THERE AND HELPING PROVIDE
THAT THOUGHT AS A COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT PLAN IS BEING
DEVELOPED AND REALLY THINKING
ABOUT THE EQUITY THINGS THAT
YOU NEED TO BE THINKING ABOUT.
SO WHO'S JUST
DISPROPORTIONATELY BENEFITING
MAYBE FROM A PROJECT OR BEING
DISPROPORTIONATELY NEGATIVELY
IMPACTED POTENTIALLY FROM A
PROJECT?
SO JUST THINKING THROUGH THAT
WITH STAFF I THINK WOULD BE
REALLY HELPFUL.
>> MS.
ANYTHING ELSE WE DO HAVE WE'VE
GOT TO MOVE ON AGAIN.
SO I WE DON'T WE DON'T HAVE TOO
MUCH TIME.
>> SO IS THERE ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS?
THANK YOU VERY MUCH HEATHER.
YEAH THANK YOU.
I APPRECIATE BEING HERE.
OK THANK YOU.
AND WE STILL DON'T HAVE THE OK
SO WE WILL GO ON.
THIS IS SOMETHING WE SHOULD BE
TALKING ABOUT IS SOMETHING WE
SHOULD BE TALKING ABOUT AS WE
PLAN THINGS.
KEEP THIS I RESPECT.
YEAH I THINK I SEE ANOTHER
SUBCOMMITTEE COMING COULD BE
AND YOU MIGHT NOT YOU SHOULD BE
ON IT BUT IN THE MEANTIME IN
THE SAME WE WERE TALKING ABOUT
THE COUNCIL ON REPARATIONS.
>> OH YOU'VE GOT THE
INFORMATION.
IT IS SOMETHING THAT'S GOING
COUNTY WIDE.
IT'S SOMETHING THAT LOOKS VERY
INTERESTING AND THEY THEY WANT
A TWENTY FOUR MONTH COMMITMENT
FROM SOME NUMBER OF PEOPLE WHO
ARE WHAT THEY CALL CONTENT
EXPERTS AND I THINK ANY THERE'S
A LOT OF THAT IN THIS GROUP.
>> THERE'S A LOT OF THAT IN THE
PEOPLE WHO ARE WATCHING THIS
THIS PRESENTATION PLEASE
CONSIDER APPLYING IF YOU DON'T
HAVE THE INFORMATION ABOUT IT,
CONTACT THE HRC AND MAKE SURE
YOU GET IT FAIR, OK?
WE TALKED ABOUT COMPLAINTS THE
TRESPASS.
>> I JUST WANT YOU TO KNOW THAT
WE'RE STILL WAITING FOR THE
WE'RE LOOKING FOR A FORM THAT
WILL CHANGE THAT WILL START A
PROCESS THAT CHANGES POLICIES
THAT ARE BEING USED FOR
TRESPASS AND HOW TO TREAT
VIOLATIONS AND HOPEFULLY WE'LL
GET THAT NEXT TIME BOMB
CONTRACTOR COMPLIANCE.
TELL YOU WHAT I KNOW THE CITY
OF THE NONDISCRIMINATION, THE
NONDISCRIMINATION ORDINANCE
THAT THAT THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION ENFORCES NOT ONLY
WORKS FOR THE PEOPLE WHO LIVE
IN THE CITY OR PEOPLE WHO WORK
IN THIS WELL, IT ALSO WORKS
WITH PEOPLE WHO WORK IN THE
CITY AND AND PEOPLE WHO ARE
COMPANIES WHO CONTRACT WITH THE
CITY HAVE TO LET THEIR
EMPLOYEES KNOW THAT THEY ARE
COVERED BY THE ANN ARBOR HUMAN
RIGHTS ORDINANCE.
EVERY YEAR WE JOIN WITH THE
CITY'S PURCHASING DEPARTMENT
CONFIRMED THAT THEY ARE THE
CONTRACTORS ARE COMPLYING AND
HOSTING THE MAIN POINTS OF THE
ORDINANCE AND ARE MAKING THE
ORDINANCE AVAILABLE AND IT'S
PART OF OUR ANNUAL REPORT.
WE'VE GOT A TWO YOU'VE SEEN THE
FIRST PART.
THIS IS THE SECOND PART BUT
THIS IS FOR TWO THOUSAND TWENTY
ONE ALSO IT'S IT'S IT'S NOT
IT'S PANDEMIC HAS MADE
EVERYTHING A LITTLE BIT SLOWER
BUT WE NEED YOU TO WE NEED YOU
TO PASS IT SO THAT IT CAN BE
SENT TO COUNCIL.
PAM MEADOWS WANTS TO SHE NEEDS
TO GIVE SOME EXPLANATION ABOUT
WHAT THOSE NUMBERS MEAN.
I DON'T THINK YOU HAVE TO
UNDERSTAND THE NUMBERS BUT YOU
HAVE TO HAVE TO UNDERSTAND THE
PROCESS AND WHAT WE'RE DOING
HERE.
>> PAM, YOU WANT TO TAKE OVER?
>> CERTAINLY SO HERE'S A
DEMONSTRATION OF YOUR WHAT THAT
NUMBER BUT REPORT LOOKS LIKE
COLIN SPENCER SENDS US THE
NAMES.
>> YEAH.
THANK YOU OF ALL OF THE
CONTRACTORS WHO DO BUSINESS
WITH THE CITY QUARTERLY AND
THEN HE GIVES US THAT
INFORMATION ANNUALLY.
IT COMES IN A VERY CONCISE HARD
TO READ SPREADSHEET SO I TAKE
IT AND PRINT IT AND IT LOOKS
LIKE THIS.
>> OH MY GOD FOR ONE QUARTER.
>> RIGHT.
AND SO WHAT YOU SEE IS A
SUMMARY OF THAT AND SO I I
TALLY THE NUMBER OF CONTRACT
QUARTERLY AND THEN I DISSECT IT
FROM ALL WHO ALL THE
CONTRACTORS FOR THAT QUARTER
WHO RECEIVE A CONTRACT TOTALING
ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS OR
MORE.
THEN I BREAK THAT DOWN TO THOSE
WHO MAY RECEIVE A CONTRACT
TOTALING A MILLION DOLLARS OR
MORE AND THEN I LOOK THROUGH
THAT TO SEE OF ALL OF THOSE
CONTRACTORS FOR THAT QUARTER
HOW MANY CONTRACTORS ARE FROM
THE ANN ARBOR AREA AND THEN WE
JUST SUMMARIZE THAT BASED ON
THE TOTAL AMOUNT THAT THE CITY
CONTRACT DID WITH AND THAT THEY
EXPENDED FOR THAT QUARTER.
>> SO EACH QUARTER IS LIKE A
CALENDAR QUARTER JANUARY EMERGE
APRIL TO JUNE, JULY TO
SEPTEMBER, OCTOBER , DECEMBER
AND WE DO PERCENTAGES OF THAT.
>> I'LL JUST SUMMARIZE WHAT
YOU'VE RECEIVED AND THAT IS
OF THE FOUR CATEGORIES TOTAL
NUMBER OF CONTRACTORS, THOSE
OVER 100K, THOSE OVER A MILLION
DOLLARS FROM ANN ARBOR.
THERE ARE THE LEAST NUMBER
OF PERSONS FROM ANN ARBOR THAT
ARE DOING BUSINESS AS A
CONTRACTOR WITH THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR.
SO BASED ON THAT AND THE
ORDINANCE WE ARE CHARGED AS A
COMMISSION TO CONFIRM THAT THAT
INFORMATION IS BEING DONE PER
THE ORDINANCE.
>> SO FOR EXAMPLE, ONE OF THE
REQUIREMENTS IS THAT INDIVIDUAL
SCHOOLS WHO CONTRACT WITH THE
CITY ARE SUPPOSED TO POST OUR
ORDINANCE AND PROMINENTLY
DISPLAY IT SOMEWHERE ON THEIR
PREMISES SO THAT THEIR
EMPLOYEES WILL KNOW THEIR
RIGHTS.
WE HAVE RELIED UPON THE CITY TO
TELL US WHEN THEY DO ON SITE
CONFIRMING THE WORK BEING DONE
THAT THAT POSTER IS PROMINENTLY
DISPLAYED PANDEMIC KIND OF SLOW
US DOWN BUT WE'RE GOING TO GET
BACK ON TRACK AND CONFIRM BY
JUST CHECKING THE ANN ARBOR NOT
ALL THERE'S USUALLY LESS THAN
TEN PER QUARTER WHO ACTUALLY
HAVE CONTRACTS FROM ANN ARBOR
WITH THE CITY.
THAT NUMBER IS KIND OF DISMAL
BECAUSE THERE ARE NO LESS THAN
SEVENTY PLUS CONTRACTORS PER
QUARTER WHO DO BUSINESS WITH
THE CITY.
SO ALL OF THOSE CONTRACTORS
LESS THAN 10 PERCENT ARE FROM
ANN ARBOR.
SO SOME OF THE THINGS THAT
WE'RE GOING TO BE EXPLORING IS
WHAT DOES THAT RFP THAT
PROPOSAL LOOK LIKE THAT THEY
PUT OUT TO CONTRACTORS TO DO
BUSINESS WITH THE CITY?
WHERE ARE THEY ACTIVELY POSTING
THAT INFORMATION AND THEN
CONFIRMING THAT THE CONTRACTORS
ARE ACTUALLY COMPLIANT WITH
POSTING THAT POSTER, THE BILL
THE NONDISCRIMINATION ORDINANCE
.
SO WE ARE GOING TO LOOK INTO
THAT AND THEN HAVE A FOLLOW UP
MEETING WITH COLIN SPENCER TO
PURCHASING PERSON FOR THE CITY
AND THAT'S WHAT YOU HAVE A
SUMMARY OF AND THAT'S WHAT
THOSE NUMBERS REFLECT IN AND
OF ITSELF.
THIS LOOKS WORSE THAN IT
ACTUALLY IS
.
IT DOESN'T REALLY TAKE THAT
LONG BUT IT'S SOMETHING THAT WE
DO
TO ENSURE THAT THE CITY IS
COMPLIANT WITH OUR ORDINANCE
AND WE'RE JUST CONFIRMING THAT
AND THEN THEY THEN TAKE THAT
SAME INFORMATION PRESENTED TO
COUNCIL AND THEN COUNCIL ACTS
ON IT AND SO WE JUST WANTED YOU
TO HAVE THAT INFORMATION AND
JUST LET YOU KNOW THAT WE'RE
COMPLIANT.
>> THAT PIECE OF THE ORDINANCE.
YEAH, ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS
ABOUT THAT?
YES, JUST OUT OF CURIOSITY ON
THAT MASSIVE SPREADSHEET ARE
THE DEMOGRAPHICS OF THE
CONTRACT NOTED LIKE WHO OWNS
THE COMPANY?
WE DO HAVE THAT TIME.
I KNOW THAT ONLY ALWAYS EVERY
QUARTER LESS THAN TANNER FROM
ANN ARBOR.
ALL OF THE REST ARE FROM ALL
OVER.
>> SO FOR INSTANCE THE GENDER
AND RACE OF THOSE RECEIVING THE
HIGHEST DOLLAR AMOUNT CONTRACTS
WE COULD GO BACK AND ASSESS
THAT WE WOULD HAVE TO DIG
FURTHER FOR THAT INFORMATION
BECAUSE WHAT SENT TO US IS FOR
THE MOST PART THE NAME AND THE
ADDRESS AND THE CONTACT PERSON
AND THE AMOUNT OF THE CONTRACT.
HOWEVER, THAT IS ONE THE
QUESTIONS THAT I RAISED WITH
COLLIN BECAUSE I WANTED TO
ENSURE THAT WE DON'T KNOW IF
ANY OF THESE FOR EXAMPLE, ARE
IMBIL WOMEN MINORITY BUSINESS
OWNERS.
NOW THE ORDINANCE DOESN'T
MANDATE THAT THEY DO THAT BUT
THERE'S A WAY THAT THEY CAN
OBTAIN THAT INFORMATION.
>> I'VE HAD THIS CONVERSATION
WITH LESLIE.
EVERY EMPLOYEE EVERY CONTRACTOR
IS REQUIRED TO COMPLETE AN
ANNUAL EEOC ONE IF YOU'RE
UNFAMILIAR WITH THAT THAT LIST
THE NINE CATEGORIES OF WHOEVER
MAKES UP THAT BUSINESS THAT
THAT SPECIFICALLY IDENTIFIES
GENDER AND RACE AND SKILL SET.
>> OK, AND SO WHILE THEY'RE NOT
DONE EXACTLY EVERY EMPLOYER IS
MANDATED TO DO THAT ANNUALLY
AND A QUICK COPY OF THAT FROM
THOSE CONTRACTORS WOULD READILY
IDENTIFY THAT INFORMATION.
>> VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU.
OK, THEIR NEXT STEP BUT THIS IS
STILL WE'RE GOING TO GET
ANOTHER ONE OF THESE IN 2002
BECAUSE WE'RE FALLING BEHIND
ANOTHER AND I'M NOT GOING TO
MEASURE IN THE SPEECH.
OH YES.
THANK YOU.
>> I'M TALKING OF REAL PEOPLE.
YOU KNOW, THERE'S TALK ABOUT
ENGAGEMENT.
>> I KNOW WE ARE GOING TO GET
ANOTHER SET OF DATA FROM
PURCHASING IN EARLY SPRING I
THINK FOR 2000 22.
SO WE WILL HAVE IT'S STILL OLD
DATA BUT WE WILL BE RUNNING ALL
THE DATA WE'LL BE GETTING BE
GETTING MORE DATA ON MY OWN
WHETHER THE REPORT WILL INCLUDE
DEMOGRAPHICS OR SHOULD WE KNOW
ARGUMENTS TO GO FORTH EXAMINE
THOSE THINGS WE THE AGENCY NEED
TO EXAMINE THOSE ARE CAN WE
MAKE A REQUEST FOR THAT?
>> WE FOR 2002 I THINK TWENTY
TWO I THINK WE WILL HAVE TO DO
THAT.
OK, WELL WE'LL GET WE'LL GET
MORE THAN WE GET NOW.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WHAT WE HAVE TO WOULD WE HAVE
TO CHANGE THE NONDISCRIMINATION
ORDINANCE TO GATHER THAT
INFORMATION OR REQUEST THAT
INFORMATION OR REQUIRE IT.
THIS IS ACTUALLY DOING THAT
YEAR ONE I THINK FIRST WE
SHOULD ASSESS YES.
YEAH.
AND SEE WHERE WE ARE AT TO KNOW
WHETHER WE NEED TO LOOK AT
AMENDING THAT INDIA BECAUSE YOU
KNOW IT IS CONCERNING WHEN WHEN
VENDORS AND EMPLOYEES DON'T
REFLECT THE COMMUNITY.
YOU'VE GOT TO ASK WHY BECAUSE
NO I HOPE NO ONE IS GOING TO
ARGUE THAT THERE ARE NO BLACK
QUALIFIED PEOPLE ANYWHERE RIGHT
WITHIN REACH OR WELL ONE OF THE
WAYS THAT I THINK IT MAY BE A
LITTLE BIT PREMATURE TO AMEND
THE ORDINANCE TO REQUEST THAT
BECAUSE INCLUDES IN THE CURRENT
LANGUAGE IS INFORMATION WHERE
WE CAN ELICIT THAT WITHOUT, YOU
KNOW, AMENDING THE ORDINANCE.
>> SO FOR EXAMPLE, A PIECE
OF IT SAYS IF ANYONE IS A
FEDERAL CONTRACTOR THEY ARE
MANDATED IN OUR ORDINANCE TO
ENGAGE IN EFFORTS TO HIRE
LOCALLY.
MM.
>> AND SO THAT'S IN OUR
ORDINANCE AND SO WE DON'T KNOW
THAT AND THAT'S WHY WE WANT TO
VERIFY THAT THE POSTER IS
PROMINENTLY DISPLAYED.
THE ONUS IS ON THE CITY WHO
HAVE INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE
ENSURING THAT THE CONTRACT IS
BEING COMPLIED WITH AND AT THAT
TIME THEY HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY
TO GO ON SITE AND LOOK TO SEE
OR REQUEST TO SEE WHERE THAT
INFORMATION IS DISPLAYED.
BUT IF ANY OF THEM ARE FEDERAL
CONTRACTORS, THEY ARE MANDATED
PER OUR ORDINANCE TO TO MAKE
EFFORTS TO HIRE LOCALLY.
AS I HAD A CONVERSATION WITH
LESLIE, THAT'S A SIMPLE
REQUIREMENT.
>> THEY NEED ONLY POST THEIR
POSITIONS WITH THE LOCAL
UNEMPLOYMENT OFFICE AND THEY'VE
MET THAT BURDEN OR THAT
REQUIREMENT.
WE DON'T KNOW THAT THAT'S BEING
DONE AND I THINK IT'S
PRESUMPTUOUS OF US TO ASSUME
THAT IT'S BEING DONE WITHOUT
ANY PROOF.
>> WHAT SO SO WE'RE GOING TO DO
A LITTLE BIT MORE THAN WHAT
WE'VE DONE IN THE PAST JUST TO
ENSURE THAT AT LEAST WE'RE NOT
TAKING IT AS GOSPEL WHERE WE'RE
BEING IT WE'RE GOING TO
SUBSTANTIATE THAT IT'S BEING
DONE AND THAT IS A REQUIREMENT
TO BE COMPLIANT WITH THE
CONTRACTS THAT THEY HAVE.
>> YEAH.
AND YOU KNOW, WITH AN
ASSESSMENT SOMETIMES YOU'RE
SURPRISED BY WE I DON'T WE ALSO
DON'T WANT TO ASSUME THERE'S A
PROBLEM.
NO.
>> BEFORE WE GO OH.
>> CAN WE LOOK AT THE DATA THAT
WE HAVE FOR TWO THOUSAND TWENTY
ONE AND SIMPLY APPROVE IT SO
THAT THAT PART COULD BE
SUBMITTED TO CITY COUNCIL?
OK, WE HAVE A EMOTION EMOTION
TO TO APPROVE IT.
I MOVED TO I MOVED TO PRESENT
THE INFORMATION AS WRITTEN TO
THE CITY COUNCIL SECOND ON
FAVOR I PASSED THANK YOU.
OK, WELL
UM THERE'S A
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN NO YOUR
RIGHTS PRESENTATION THAT WE'VE
BEEN TALKING ABOUT FOR I THINK
A WHOLE YEAR NOW AND WE ARE
GOING TO MEET ON ON FRIDAY
THERE WILL B A MEETING TO
DISCUSS THIS WITH THE PEOPLE
FROM THE ELLYSON A STUDENT
GOVERNMENT AND THE CAN'T THINK
WHAT IT'S CALLED THE TITLE NINE
DEPARTMENT OF THE UNIVERSITY
BECAUSE THEY'RE GOING TO DO
PART OF THIS PRESENTATION.
THEY WILL DO AS FAR SO FAR IT
LOOKS LIKE THEY WILL DO THE
THEY WILL DO KNOW YOUR RIGHTS
FOR ON CAMPUS AND WE WILL DO
FOR OFF CAMPUS AND IT'LL BE A
ZOOM AND I DON'T KNOW VERY MUCH
ABOUT IT AND I WILL FIND OUT ON
FRIDAY WHEN WE START MAKING
DECISIONS.
BUT YOU'LL HEAR MORE ABOUT THAT
QUESTION FOR SARAH.
SHE'S STILL HERE.
>> YES.
THERE SOMEONE AT OUR MEETING
YOU SUGGESTED YOU WERE GOING TO
DO BE DOING SOME SOME EXPLORING
OPPORTUNITIES FOR US TO HELP
WITH LGBT ISSUES PROBABLY
INCLUDING TRANS ISSUES.
SO I REACHED OUT THROUGH I'M A
MEMBER OF THE WORLD
PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR
TRANS HEALTH AND SO I REACHED
OUT THROUGH OUR MEMBER LISTSERV
AND ASKED IF ANYONE HAD
EXPERIENCE WITH WHAT WOULD BE
POSSIBLE AT THE LOCAL LEVEL TO
AFFIRM TRANS RIGHTS AND HAD TWO
PEOPLE GET BACK IN TOUCH.
SO THE FIRST PERSON BRANDED AND
I MET WITH HER AND THEY ARE A
PSYCHOLOGIST WHO WAS VERY
ACTIVE AND IT WAS CHRISTINA
PATTERSON IN WORK WITH THE
AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGICAL
ASSOCIATION TO HAVE A POSITION
OFFICIAL POSITION STATEMENT
AGAINST CONVERSION THERAPY
WHICH I KNOW THE COMMISSION WAS
VERY INVOLVED WITH THAT KIND
OF WORK LAST YEAR AND SO WE
TALKED TO CHRISTINA AND THEN
AFTER THAT CHRISTINA ALSO
CONNECTED ME TO MELISSA.
GRACE IS ANOTHER PSYCHOLOGIST
WHO'S ACTUALLY BASED IN ANN
ARBOR AND SHE WAS ALSO VERY
INVOLVED IN THIS WORK WITH
CONVERSION THERAPY AND BOTH
OF THEM HAD DONE SOME WORK
LOBBYING ON THE STATE LEVEL FOR
DIFFERENT STATE LEVEL
LEGISLATION.
SO BASICALLY FROM FROM SPEAKING
TO THEM AND BRANDON PLEASED AT
IF I AM FORGETTING THING
BASICALLY IT SOUNDS LIKE A LOT
OF THE WORK IS HAPPENING AT THE
STATE LEVEL AND A LOT OF PLACES
AND SO THEY WERE A LITTLE BIT
UNCERTAIN ABOUT WHICH PIECES
CAN ACTUALLY BE TRANSLATED TO
LOCAL LEVEL LEGISLATION, SOME
POTENTIAL IDEAS THAT WERE
SUGGESTED WAS LEGISLATION
AROUND AFFIRMING TRANS RIGHTS
OR NOT USING BATHROOMS OF THEIR
CHOICE THAT MATCHED THEIR
GENDER.
AND SO CHRISTINE WAS SAYING
THAT SHE YOU HAVE SOME
LEGISLATION THAT BASICALLY SAYS
THAT IF YOU ARE BUILDING OR YOU
HAVE A SINGLE STALL RESTROOM IT
HAS TO BE LABELED GENDER
INCLUSIVE.
YOU'RE NOT ALLOWED TO GET A
SINGLE GENDER RESTROOM IF THERE
IS ONLY ONE STALL THERE AND
THAT'S SORT OF LIKE SOMETHING
THAT WAS RELATIVELY EASY TO
GATHER SUPPORT AROUND.
AND ALSO THEY BROUGHT IN FOLKS
WHO ARE DISABILITY RIGHTS
ADVOCATES AND FOLKS WHO YOU
KNOW, WANTED MEN TO BE ABLE TO
ACCESS RESTROOMS THAT HAD
CHANGING
TABLES BECAUSE THAT'S
NOT ALWAYS THE CASE.
SO THERE ARE A LOT OF PEOPLE
WHO BENEFIT FROM THIS TYPE
OF LEGISLATION THAT SAYS THAT,
YOU KNOW, SINGLE RESTROOMS HAVE
TO BE GENDER INCLUSIVE AT THE
SAME TIME FOR DENHA ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT YOU KNOW, YOU MAY WANT TO
CHECK WITH TRANS FOLKS IN YOUR
COMMUNITY ABOUT WHETHER THIS IS
LIKE THE HIGHEST PRIORITY FOR
THEM.
SO YOU KNOW, IN SOME
COMMUNITIES THIS MAY NOT BE
LIKE THE APPEAR TO BE THE MOST
URGENT NEED AT THE SAME TIME IT
COULD BE A NICE WAY TO KIND
OF BUILD MOMENTUM AND SUPPORT
AND SOME COALITION BUILDING
AROUND SOMETHING THAT MAYBE
HOPEFULLY IS RELATIVELY EASY TO
PASS AND MAKE SOME SORT OF AT
LEAST A SMALL DIFFERENT.
THE OTHER SUGGESTION WAS TO
LOOK INTO POTENTIAL SANCTUARY
LAWS AND THESE HAVE BEEN PASSED
IN THE PAST.
I THINK MELISSA THOUGHT THAT
THERE WAS ONE ON THE COUNTY
LEVEL IN WASHTENAW COUNTY
POTENTIALLY AROUND LIKE
SANCTUARY LAWS AROUND
IMMIGRATION STATUS BUT
BASICALLY SANCTUARY LAWS AROUND
GENDER AFFIRMING MEDICAL CARE
AND ABORTION CARE AND SO THESE
ARE TYPICALLY PASSED AT THE
STATE LEVEL.
BUT SHE SAID MAYBE IT'LL BE
INTERESTING TO LOOK AND SEE IF
THEY COULD BE PASSED AT THE
LOCAL LEVEL AND BASICALLY THESE
SORTS OF LAWS PROHACK WOULD
PROACTIVELY DEFINE THESE TYPES
OF HEALTH CARE AS PROTECTED AND
SHIELD PEOPLE SO THAT THEY
CAN'T BE INVESTIGATED BY
ANOTHER STATE IF THEY COME TO
ANN ARBOR TO GET GENDER
AFFIRMING CARE, REPRODUCTIVE
HEALTH CARE AND THESE TYPES
OF LAWS ALSO WILL STATE LIKE WE
WON'T USE OUR LAW ENFORCEMENT
RESOURCES TO LIKE INVESTIGATE
THESE TYPES OF BEHAVIOR IN ANY
WAY EVEN IF THEY'RE ILLEGAL IN
OTHER STATES OR WHEREVER THAT
PERSON IS FROM.
AND SO AGAIN, IT WAS LIKE A
LITTLE UNCLEAR WHETHER THIS IS
THE TYPE OF LEGISLATION THAT
COULD PASS ON THE LOCAL LEVEL
BUT THIS WOULD BE ANOTHER TYPE
OF LEGISLATION TO POTENTIALLY
LOOK INTO THE OTHER SUGGESTION
WAS, YOU KNOW, THERE ARE A LOT
OF ISSUES THAT
DISPROPORTIONATELY AFFECT THE
LGBTQ COMMUNITY THAT AREN'T
NECESSARILY LGBTQ SPECIFIC.
SO WE TALKED ABOUT I THINK
ABOUT A YEAR AGO COUNCIL IS
DEBATING WHETHER TO
DECRIMINALIZE SEX WORK IN ANN
ARBOR FOR INSTANCE AND THAT DID
NOT PASS AT THE TIME.
BUT YOU KNOW, THAT IS SOMETHING
THAT DISPROPORTIONATELY AFFECTS
TRANS FOLKS, DIFFERENT TYPES
OF LEGISLATION THAT SORT OF YOU
MAY DISPROPORTIONATELY AFFECT
LGBTQ PEOPLE SO THOSE ARE SOME
OF LIKE KIND OF THE INITIAL
THOUGHTS THEY DID SUGGEST
TALKING TO EQUALITY MICHIGAN AS
AN ORGANIZATION THAT MIGHT HAVE
SOME REALLY GOOD GUIDANCE ABOUT
WHAT LEGALLY IS EVEN POSSIBLE
TO DO AT THE LOCAL LEVEL.
SO THAT WAS GOING TO BE MY NEXT
STEP OF FOLKS TO REACH FOLKS TO
REACH OUT TO AND INVITE
RESIDENT ADA AND JUDA AND
WHOEVER ELSE IS INTERESTED IF
ANYONE WOULD LIKE TO REACH OUT
TO THEM AS WELL, WE'D LOVE TO
HAVE MORE FOLKS ON BOARD TO TO
TO TO REACH OUT TO MORE PEOPLE.
SO I'LL PAUSE THERE AND YEAH.
>> EXCITED TO HEAR YOUR
THOUGHTS ON LET ME LET ME MAKE
ONE COMMENT.
IF SOMETHING IS DONE AT THE
STATE LEVEL WE DON'T HAVE TO
REPRODUCE IT AT THE LOCAL
LEVEL.
>> IT ALREADY IT ALREADY WILL
COVER US RIGHT NOW WE HAVE
BETTER PROTECTIONS THAN THE
STATE BY A LOT I'M PRETTY SURE.
>> BUT FOR CAN YOU BE SPECIFIC
ESPECIALLY FOR TRANS BUT ALSO
FOR LGBT BECAUSE FOR A LONG
TIME STATE DIDN'T HAVE
ANYTHING.
WE WE WERE THE ONLY ONES WHO
COVERED IT AND WE TRIED TO
COVER IT VERY CAREFULLY.
THE THINGS THAT PROGRESSED AND
YOU BROUGHT UP A LOT
OF INTERESTING IDEAS BUT I
DON'T THINK WE NEED TO HAVE A
REPRODUCTION OF A LAW THAT
COVERS US IN THE STATE LEVEL
BECAUSE STATE TRUMPS LOCAL AND
ANYTHING THAT IT'S COVERED BY
THE STATE WE WILL COVER THAT.
BUT THERE ARE LOTS OF THINGS
YOU'RE SEEING AND LOTS
OF OPPORTUNITIES FOR US.
AND ONE MORE I WANT TO THROW
INTO YOUR YOUR VACUOLES
POSSIBILITIES.
I WAS CONTACTED TODAY BY THE
EQUITY OFFICE AND THEY ARE
INTERESTED IN HAVING THE HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION LOOK AT HOW
WE CAN IMPROVE THE THE
ACTIVITIES AND THE POLICIES
THAT OUR MENTIONED IN THE
MUNICIPAL EQUITY INDEX THAT
GOES TO CITIES EVERY YEAR.
ALTHOUGH ANN ARBOR APPEARS TO
HAVE 100 OUT OF 100 POINTS, WE
WANT HIGHER AND WE'VE LOST SOME
POINTS SOME OF THOSE EXTRA
CREDIT POINTS YOU KNOW, IT'S
NICE TO LIVE IN A CITY IN YOU I
AND YET WE'VE ON 100 POINTS.
THAT'S RIGHT.
AND YET WE SEE THE HUGE
DISPARITIES.
ABSOLUTELY NO.
YOU'VE GOT A QUESTION.
NO, ABSOLUTELY SO YES.
>> LET'S GET EVERY SO THEY'RE
ASKING US TO LOOK AT WAYS IN
WHICH WE CAN MOVE THAT SCORE
EVEN HIGHER, WHICH REALLY MEANS
I MEAN THE SCORE IS NICE BUT
WHAT REALLY MEANS IS CHANGING
SOME THINGS EVEN MORE
THOROUGHLY TO GET MORE EQUITY.
>> YEAH, WE NEED MORE EQUITY
METRICS SO OUR WE WILL BE
TALKING ABOUT THAT TO AND YEAH
IT'S SOMETHING ELSE I WANTED TO
ADD.
I THINK IT LITERALLY JUST
HAPPENED TODAY BY THE HOUSE AND
SENATE.
THEY ALSO PASSED AMENDMENTS TO
THE ELLIOT LARSEN CIVIL RIGHTS
ACT OF 1976.
SO THAT WILL BE BASICALLY
CODIFYING CODIFY THE RIGHTS FOR
THE LGBTQ PLUS COMMUNITY
OVERALL AS WELL TO SO THEY ARE
NOW TO MY UNDERSTANDING WILL BE
ADDED INTO THE LIST
OF PROTECTED CLASSES SO THEY
WON'T BE ABLE TO BE
DISCRIMINATED AGAINST IN TERMS
OF THEIR JOBS, EDUCATION,
HOUSING AND PUBLIC
ACCOMMODATIONS.
SO I THINK THIS IS YEAH
GINORMOUS GREAT STEP IN
EVERYTHING AND YEAH AGAIN EVEN
THOUGH THIS IS A GREAT STEP
THINGS STILL NEED TO HAPPEN IN
TERMS OF WORKING WITH THE
OVERALL COMMUNITY TO MAKE SURE
THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION IS ALSO
DONE PROPERLY AS WELL AND AS
YEAH.
AS MUCH OF AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE
AND TRAUMA INFORMED MANNER.
SO I THINK THIS CAN ALSO BE
USED TO INFORM OUR WORK OF HOW
DO WE STILL CONTINUE TO SUPPORT
THE LGBT COMMUNITY.
YEAH, AS WE WAIT FOR THIS TO BE
MORE ACTIONABLE AND IMPLEMENTED
,WHEN DOES IT WHEN YOU KNOW
WHEN THAT'S EXPECTED THAT VOTE
I THINK IT LITERALLY HAPPENED
TODAY WHEREAS LIKE IT DID PASS
OK SO WE'LL GET COPIES SOON.
>> YEAH THAT WOULD BE GREAT.
OH SORRY I ALSO WANTED TO I
LIKE FROM THE CONVERSATION SOME
OTHER NOTES THAT WERE MADE WERE
ALSO IN TERMS OF EDUCATION AND
KIND OF LIKE THE BANNED BOOKS
IN YEAH.
JUST MAKING SURE THAT THAT IS
ALSO SOMETHING TO THINK ABOUT
WHEN WE WERE TALKING WITH I'VE
GOT A NAME I WAS FEELING SHE
ALSO MENTIONED SCHOOL SPORTS
AND THEN SHE ALSO MENTIONED
JUST PROTECTIONS AND KIND LIKE
THE PUBLIC HEALTH ASPECT OF HIV
AND FOR PEOPLE WHO INJECT DRUGS
AND NEEDLE TRANSMISSION'S IN
ANN ARBOR CAN DO IN THAT SENSE
TO HELP WITH PROVIDING
ADDITIONAL SUPPORT AND ACCESS
FOR CLEAN NEEDLES FOR PEOPLE IN
A HARM REDUCTION MANNER.
>> THANK YOU.
THIS IS YEAH I THINK SOME
OF THOSE PIECES MAYBE ALSO ARE
COLLABORATIONS WITH THE SCHOOL
BOARD.
I THINK THEY MENTIONED, YOU
KNOW, MAKING SURE THAT SEX ED
THAT IS IN OUR PUBLIC SCHOOLS
IS TRANSEND LGBT INCLUSIVE AND
THEN LIKE THE SPORTS ISSUE
OF COURSE NATIONALLY IS KIND
OF A HOT BUTTON ISSUE.
SO LOOKING AT WHAT WHAT DO WE
HAVE LOCALLY TO KIND OF AFFIRM
PROTECTIONS FOR OUR TRANSITION
IN OUR COMMUNITY?
SO YEAH, I THINK I'LL FOLLOW UP
ON MY EMAIL TO FOLKS WHO ARE
INTERESTED AND MAYBE WE CAN
LOOK AT REACH OUT TO QUALITY
MICHIGAN.
WE KIND OF HAVE THESE INITIAL
IDEAS BUT NOT SUPER CLEAR ON
WHAT'S ACTUALLY FEASIBLE OR
LEGALLY POSSIBLE.
>> SO I THINK THAT MIGHT BE THE
NEXT STEP IN TERMS OF WHERE TO
FOCUS OUR ENERGIES.
>> I'M WONDERING IF THERE IS A
WAY SINCE WE'VE BEEN TALKING
ABOUT ENGAGEMENT WITH THE
COMMUNITY, IF THERE'S A WAY
THAT WE CAN GET THIS
INFORMATION OUT ONCE THIS YOU
KNOW, THIS BILL IS PASSED AND
WE KNOW WHAT TO INCLUDES AND
WHAT IMPLICATIONS IT HAS FOR
US, IT IS PASSED IT HAS TO BE
PASSED IN THE HOUSE TODAY.
>> YEAH, OK, SO IF THERE IS
SOMETHING THAT WE CAN DO TO
MAKE IT CLEAR TO THE SCHOOLS
FOR EXAMPLE TO WHOEVER NEEDS
YOU KNOW, WHAT DO YOU WANT TO
AVERT?
I MEAN WE COULD ADVERTISE WE
COULD PROBABLY GET IT POSTED ON
THE JIM TOYE FACEBOOK PAGE.
>> WE IF WE DO THAT WE NEED
SOMEHOW WE NEED TO LET PEOPLE
KNOW WHERE IT IS SO THAT
EVERYBODY HAVE EASY ACCESS.
>> YOU WANT JUST TO DO WHAT
JUST THE LGBTQ PROTECTIONS
POSTED IS WHAT YOU'RE ASKING?
>> ACTUALLY WHAT I'M THINKING
IS BECAUSE WE'VE WE'VE GOT A
VERY GOOD AUDIENCE ALREADY SO
THAT WE OUGHT TO LOOK AT THAT
LOOK AT WHAT WE'VE ALREADY GOT
AND FIND OUT WHAT HAS CHANGED,
WHAT WHAT THOSE BUT WHAT THE
AUDIENCE YEAH.
I'M NOT AN EXPERT BUT MY
UNDERSTANDING IS THAT IT'S SORT
OF I THINK IT BRINGS THERE AT
THE STATE LEVEL OR IT IS CLOSER
TO WHAT
WE HAVE HERE.
SO I DON'T KNOW THAT IT WILL
CHANGE MUCH IN PRACTICE AT OUR
LEVEL EXCEPT OF COURSE I THINK
THERE'S A BIG PSYCHOLOGICAL
IMPACT TO MARGINALIZED
COMMUNITIES OF KNOWING THAT OK,
THESE PROTECTIONS AREN'T REALLY
ENSHRINED AND AFFIRMED AT EVERY
LEVEL OF MY OF MY GOVERNMENT.
AND SO I THINK LIKE THAT KIND
OF SYMBOLIC ASPECT IS PERHAPS
EVEN ONE OF THE MORE OF THE
MORE IMMEDIATE IMPACTS OF THIS
.
I THINK MY UNDERSTANDING IS
THAT BASED ON MICHIGAN SUPREME
COURT PRECEDENT THEY HAVE READ
LIKE THE SEX PROTECTION ON THE
BASIS OF SEX SHOULD ALSO
INCLUDE SEXUAL ORIENTATION,
GENDER IDENTITY.
BUT IT WASN'T SPECIFICALLY LIKE
EXPLICITLY IN THE LAW THAT YOU
CAN'T DISCRIMINATE BASED ON
SEXUAL ORIENTATION AND GENDER
IDENTITY.
SO THAT'S JUST REALLY FIRMS UP
THAT PROTECTION THAT PREVIOUSLY
WAS ONLY A COURT RULING AND NOW
WILL BE IN STATE LEVEL LAW.
BUT YOU KNOW, OF COURSE OUR
NONDISCRIMINATION ORDINANCE AT
THE LOCAL LEVEL ALREADY HAS
THOSE PROTECTIONS WHICH IS
GREAT HUGE PLUS ONE IN THE
DISTRICT AS WELL JUST FOR TRENT
LOTT, POINT OF CLARIFICATION
I'M UNSURE.
I'M VERY POSITIVE.
I BELIEVE THE GOVERNOR IS NOT
YET SIGNED THIS BILL.
CORRECT.
HE JUST PASSED IN THE HOUSE SO.
RIGHT.
IT JUST PASSED IN THE HOUSE.
YES.
YEAH.
IT DOES HAVE TO BE SIGNED.
YOU YEAH.
>> YEAH.
SO I GUESS I'M JUST NOT CLEAR
WHAT YOU BECAUSE SARAH JUST
TALKED ABOUT A WHOLE LOT
OF THINGS THAT ARE NOT
CURRENTLY UNDER THAT ARE NOT
CURRENTLY PROTECTIONS FOR LGBTQ
PLUS COMMUNITY MEMBERS
INCLUDING THE TRANSGENDER
COMMUNITY IN THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR.
AND SO THERE ARE THINGS THAT WE
COULD WORK ON AS A COMMISSION
LIKE DOING A CITY ORDINANCE
THAT MANDATES ALL SINGLE STALL
BATHROOMS IN ANN ARBOR BUSINESS
IS TO BE NON GENDER BATHROOMS.
RIGHT.
THAT'S I MEAN THAT'S A GOAL OR
THAT'S A ITEM BUT THAT DOESN'T
HAVE ANYTHING TO DO WITH
LEGISLATION.
I MEAN THAT'S NOT LEGISLATION.
THAT'S AN ORDINANCE AND THAT'S
SOMETHING WE PUT FORWARD TO
CITY COUNCIL.
>> RIGHT.
I'M THINKING THAT I DON'T KNOW
BECAUSE I DON'T KNOW I I
HAVEN'T SEEN EXACTLY WHAT'S
BEEN PASSED BUT I DO KNOW THAT
WHAT IS EVEN IN OUR ORDINANCE
IS NOT THAT WILL NOT AS WELL
KNOWN AS IT PROBABLY SHOULD BE
AND THIS WOULD FIRM UP POLICIES
THAT WE HAVE ALREADY THAT ARE
ALREADY IN THE ORDINANCE LIKE
ACCESS TO THE BATHROOM OF THE
GENDER THAT YOU THAT IS PART
THE THE YOU FEEL YOU ARE FOR
EXAMPLE, SO IS THE ASTREUS ONCE
THE GOVERNOR SIGNS THE BILL IF
SHE SO CHOOSES IS JUST TO
PUBLICIZE THAT THIS HAPPENED.
>> HERE IS THE DETAILS OF THE
BILL THAT MIGHT THAT MIGHT BE
ENOUGH.
OK, I DON'T KNOW.
>> I GUESS I GUESS I DON'T
KNOW.
I THINK I THINK I THINK IT'S I
THINK IT'S USEFUL FOR SOMEBODY
TO LOOK AT IT, LOOK AT WHAT
WE'VE GOT, SEE WHAT IF WE'VE
GOT ANYTHING EXTRA THAT WE
OUGHT TO LET PEOPLE KNOW AND
AND LET PEOPLE KNOW THAT THE
SOME OF THE PROTECTIONS THAT
ARE IN OUR ORDINANCE ARE NOW
ALL OVER THE COUNTRY ARE ALL
OVER THE STATE RATHER AND THAT
AND PEOPLE DON'T KNOW THAT WHAT
ANN ARBOR IS A FUNNY PLACE.
>> IT'S GOT LITTLE POCKETS
OF TOWNSHIPS ALL OVER THE CITY
AND WE'RE GETTING LOTS
OF PEOPLE WHO ARE COMING TO US
EVEN FROM PITTSFIELD TOWNSHIP
WITH WITH THINGS THAT WE'RE
COVERED WE WE COVER BUT THEY
DON'T MOVE AND THEY THINK THEY
SHOULD BECAUSE MAYBE THEY HAVE
AN IN OUR MAILING ADDRESS FOR
EXAMPLE, ANN, THIS ALLOWS A
MUCH FOR FOR MUCH BROADER
COVERAGE OF SOME BENEFITS THAT
WE'VE HAD AND AND MAYBE WE'RE
NOT EVEN USING MAYBE SCHOOLS
FOR EXAMPLE, MIGHT NOT BE USING
ALL THE PROTECTIONS THAT WE
THAT THE ORDINANCE ALREADY
COVERS OR THAT THE STATE NOW IS
GOING TO COVER .
I JUST DON'T KNOW.
BUT I THINK SOMEBODY SHOULD
LOOK AT IT AND SEE WHAT WHAT
KIND OF WHAT KIND OF PUBLISHING
OF THE AUDIT OF THIS NEW
INFORMATION IS NEEDED AND WHERE
IT SHOULD BE PUBLISHED.
>> IT'S JUST OK SO WHAT I THINK
YOU'RE SAYING IS TAKE THE
NONDISCRIMINATION AN ORDINANCE
THAT WE FOLLOW FOR OUR
COMMISSION AND COMPARE THAT TO
THE ELIOT LARSEN BILL ONCE THE
GOVERNOR SIGNS IT AND SEE IF
THERE ARE BETTER PROTECTIONS
UNDER ELLIOT LARSEN FOR LGBTQ
PLUS COMMUNITY MEMBERS AND THEN
IF THERE ARE PUBLISH THAT SO
THAT OUR COMMUNITY MEMBERS KNOW
THAT STATEWIDE NOW THERE ARE
BETTER FURTHER LARGER
PROTECTIONS AND SO THAT PEOPLE
IN TOWNSHIPS WHERE PERHAPS OUR
ORDINANCE DOESN'T COVER THEM
WILL NOW KNOW THAT THE STATE
LAWS WILL COVER THEM EVEN WHEN
ANN ARBOR CITY ORDINANCE DON'T
COVER THEM.
AND I THINK THAT I THINK THAT'S
A FINE IDEA WE CAN DO THAT.
I THINK THEN THAT WE COULD
COVER OR WE COULD POST THAT
THROUGH OUR CITY WEBSITE LIKE
OUR OWN HRC WEBSITE AND THEN WE
COULD USE IT WE COULD SHARE IT
ON SOCIAL MEDIA IN DIFFERENT
WAYS AND I CAN I'M SURE I COULD
GET IT PUBLISHED ON THE JIM
TOYE WEBSITE.
>> I REALLY THINK THAT BEYOND
THE WEBSITE AND SHARING TO OUR
SOCIAL MEDIA IS THIS IS GOING
TO BE ALL OVER ALREADY IS ON MY
DETROIT NEWS FREE EVERYTHING I
FEEL LIKE THE WORD WILL BE
SUFFICIENTLY OUT THERE IF WE
WANT A PERMANENT SORT
OF RESTING PLACE FOR PEOPLE TO
KNOW ABOUT IS ADDED
PROTECTIONS.
OUR WEBSITE SHOULD BE MORE THAN
APPROPRIATE AND THEN WE CAN
ALSO UTILIZE OUR EXISTING
RESOURCES BEYOND THANKS TO
DENHA AS WELL.
>> RIGHT?
I JUST OPPORTUNITY TO HIGHLIGHT
THAT WE'VE HAD ALREADY THESE
PROTECTIONS IN PLACE IN ANN
ARBOR.
THE STATE IS CATCHING UP.
I DOUBT THAT THEY'VE EXCEEDED
WHAT WE HAVE BUT IT'S JUST
ANOTHER CHANCE TO LET PEOPLE
KNOW WHAT THEIR RIGHTS ARE AND
ALSO THAT THEY ALREADY HAD
.
YEAH, I
YEAH I'M THINKING THAT
OUR WEBSITE IS IS ONE PLACE
SOCIAL MEDIA IS ANOTHER PLACE I
AGAIN I'M WISHING THAT THERE IS
THERE WAS A COMMON PLACE THAT
WE THOUGHT EVERYBODY WENT TO
BUT I DON'T THINK THERE IS YOU
MAY BE RIGHT THAT PEOPLE THAT
THE WORD WILL WILL GET OUT
QUICKLY BUT IT'LL BE A LOT
OF PIECES OF THE WORD.
>> I MEAN I MEAN WE CAN JUST
DIRECTLY SHARE WHAT HAS PASSED.
I MEAN THE ENTIRE BILL BUT
BEYOND OUR WEBSITE AND SOCIAL
MEDIA CHANNELS AND PARTNERSHIPS
WITH THE CITY, I'M ENTIRELY
UNSURE OF WHERE ELSE WE WOULD
PUT THIS OR WOULD EVEN HAVE THE
CAPACITY OR AUTHORIZATION TO
POST THAT.
I THINK BEYOND JUST OUR WEBSITE
THAT THAT IS THE HOME FOR
THINGS LIKE THAT IS THE
CERTIFIED SOURCE.
BEYOND THAT WE THOUGHT TOO MUCH
OF A HAND IN THINGS.
OK, WELL THANK YOU ALL
INTERESTING.
>> I'M SO SO I DO HAVE TO RUN
NOW SO APOLOGIES FOR NOT BEING
THERE IN PERSON TODAY AND FOR
LEAVING A LITTLE EARLY BUT I
WILL FOLLOW UP WITH THOSE FOLKS
WHO ARE INTERESTED OVER EMAIL
AGAIN AND TALK ABOUT NEXT STEPS
AND THEN WE'LL HOPEFULLY HAVE
MORE TO PRESENT NEXT MONTH.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH SARAH.
THANK YOU.
OK,
ON BUSINESS
OK WE'VE GOT
TWO OTHER ISSUES WE'D LIKE TO
COVER AND MAYBE WE'LL GET OUT
EARLY BECAUSE IT DOESN'T LOOK
LIKE WE'RE GOING TO HAVE THE
CITY ADMINISTRATOR AFTER OK.
>> I'M ONE OF THE THINGS THAT'S
HAPPENED.
YOU KNOW, UNTIL MAYBE TWO YEARS
AGO WE WERE NOT HANDLING RENT
OR HOUSING VERY MUCH AT ALL.
>> A LITTLE BIT
OF DISCRIMINATION IN HOUSING
BUT THAT WAS NOT A BIG AREA FOR
US AND IT HAS BECOME A MUCH
BIGGER AREA.
WE RIGHT NOW THE
NONDISCRIMINATION ORDINANCE
DEALS WITH DISCRIMINATION IN
HOUSING ON YOU KNOW, ALL THE
PROTECTED CLASSES.
IT ALSO DEALS WITH SOURCE
OF INCOME AND THE FACT THAT WE
HAVE EXPANDED THE DEFINITION
OF SOURCE OF INCOME MEANS THAT
AFFECTS PEOPLE A LOT.
IT MEANS THAT BY AND LARGE
VOUCHER IS THE SAME AS MONEY
AND YOU CAN'T DISCRIMINATE
BETWEEN PEOPLE WHO HAVE ARE
GOING TO PAY IT COMPLETELY WITH
CASH OR PEOPLE GOING TO PAY IT
WITH CHECK.
>> PEOPLE ARE GOING TO PAY IT
WITH A VOUCHER AND THAT'S MADE
A BIG DIFFERENCE FOR A LOT
OF PEOPLE.
>> WE ALSO NOW HAVE THE FAIR
CHANCE ACCESS TO HOUSING
ORDINANCE AND THAT HAS MADE A
VERY BIG DIFFERENCE.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I SHARE
HAS COME UP WITH SOMEBODY
WHO
WANTS TO LEARN FROM US
EXPERIENCE IN DETROIT.
QAEDA IS STARTING TO EXPAND AND
WOULD LIKE TO PLUS I'VE BEEN
CONTACTED WITH A HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSIONER FROM LANSING.
GOOD.
THAT ALSO WOULD LIKE
INFORMATION ABOUT FAIR HOUSING.
>> GOOD.
AND BECAUSE WE PEOPLE ARE
STARTING TO GET INTERESTED I
DID WHAT WE PROBABLY WELL WE
REALLY COULDN'T DO IT MUCH
BEFORE.
IT'S ONLY BEEN ABOUT A YEAR BUT
CHECKED AROUND TO SEE WHETHER
PEOPLE ARE REALLY PROFITING,
REALLY BENEFITING FROM THE FAIR
CHANCE ACCESS TO HOUSING
ORDINANCE AND IT TURNS OUT THAT
THEY ARE VERY MUCH SO DOING
THIS THAT PEOPLE WHO ARE TRYING
TO PLACE HOUSING FOR PEOPLE WHO
ARE HARD TO PLACE BECAUSE
THEY'VE HAD A FELONY IN THEIR
PAST OR IN OUR INCARCERATION
REGARDLESS OF HOW MANY YEARS IT
HAS BEEN SINCE THEY HAD THIS
FELONY OR INCARCERATION OR WHAT
THE DETAILS WERE THAT HAVE NOT
BEEN ABLE TO GET HOUSING HERE
AT ALL AND NOW THEY ARE ABLE TO
DO THAT AND I THINK IT'S IT'S
MAKING A BIG DIFFERENCE AND
WITH SOURCE OF INCOME A VERY
BIG DIFFERENCE.
THERE'S NOW A RENTERS
COMMISSION AND THAT COMMISSION
IS HAS CONTACTED US ALL ALSO TO
TALK TO US ABOUT WHAT WE'RE
DOING.
BUT WE ALSO NEED TO TALK TO
THEM ABOUT WHAT THEY'RE THEY'RE
DOING AND SOMEHOW THEY'RE HARD
TO REACH.
I'VE BEEN TRYING TO REACH THEM
FOR A MONTH.
>> WELL, GOOD BECAUSE IT'S NOT
EASY EVEN THOUGH THEY HAVE A
LIAISON WHO WORKS FOR THE CITY.
>> BUT I THINK WE MAY HAVE WE
MAY HAVE TO SOMEHOW HAVE A
LIAISON ON THAT COMMISSION OR
SOME KIND OF ARRANGEMENT SO
THAT WE'RE IN TOUCH BECAUSE
WE'RE OVERLAPPING WITH THEM IN
MANY WAYS PEOPLE ARE COMING TO
US SOMETIMES FOR THEIR
PROBLEMS.
I MEAN IT'S JUST GETTING
CONFUSING BUT IT'S IMPORTANT TO
ASK WHAT ARE THEY MONITORING OR
WHAT WHAT IS PURVIEW THEY
WEDNESDAY I AM NOT SURE BUT IT
CAME OUT OF THE THE RIGHT TO
RENEW ORDINANCE AND THE
ORDINANCE THAT YES.
>> THAT HAD TO DO WITH I MEAN
COULD TIMING OF OVER TIMING.
>> YES.
BUT NOW THERE ARE PEOPLE WHO
ARE YOU KNOW VERY INTERESTED IN
LOTS OF RENTAL AND AND WE'RE
GETTING LOTS OF COMPLAINTS
ABOUT RENTING NOW SO AND WE AND
BY THE WAY, IS THERE ANYBODY
HERE WHO KNOWS AN AWFUL LOT
ABOUT LENDING TO ANYBODY WHO
KNOWS GREAT.
YOU KNOW WHO WHO SPECIALIZES IN
IT OR KNOWS A GREAT DEAL?
OK, WELL SOME OF US WE'RE GOING
TO HAVE YOU KNOW, I JUST WANTED
TO GIVE YOU A HEADS UP BECAUSE
THAT'S COMING UP VERY, VERY
DEFINITELY.
ONE OTHER THING I WANTED TO
RAISE WITH YOU AND IT AGAIN HAS
SOMETHING TO DO WITH THE THE
PRESENTATION THAT WE SAW TODAY
HAVING TO DO WITH OUTREACH AND
HAVING A NEW MAILING LIST HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION HAD A MAILING
LIST, SOMETHING WE STARTED IN
AFTER AFTER THE TRAGEDY AROUND
GRASSER WHEN IT WAS VERY
DIFFICULT.
WE HAD A LOT OF QUESTIONS TO
ASK AND TO GET ANSWERED.
>> WE WANTED TO REACH INTO
COMMUNITIES THAT SAID HE HAD
NOT REACHED HIM BEFORE AND WE
KNEW WE NEEDED AS AN AUXILIARY
MAILING LIST NOT NOT SOMETHING
THAT WOULD REPLACE THE CITY'S
AT THE TIME I THINK THE CITY
HAD 400 PEOPLE ON THEIR MAILING
LIST.
IT WASN'T VERY BIG.
I WAS NEVER ON IT AND I'M STILL
NOT ON IT.
I DON'T KNOW WHY BUT LOTS
OF PEOPLE AREN'T ON IT IF I'M
NOT ON IT.
>> I MEAN I'M KIND OF I'VE KIND
BEEN ACTIVE AND I DON'T KNOW I
DON'T KNOW HOW THAT HAPPENS.
>> BUT WHAT WHAT SO SO WE'VE
HAD THIS MAILING LIST WE WE
USED IT WE USED IT TO SURVEY
PEOPLE.
WE USED IT TO TELL PEOPLE THAT
THERE WERE JOB OPENINGS IN ON
COMMISSIONS LIKE THE HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION OR THE WHEN
IT WAS WHEN IT WAS FORMED THE
IN DEPENDENT CITIZENS OVERSIGHT
COMMISSION WE USED IT TO TO LET
THEM KNOW THAT THERE WERE TOWN
HALLS.
WE USE THEM ALL KINDS OF THINGS
.
>> IT WAS VERY HELPFUL SO THAT
IF SOMETHING CAME UP THIS WAS
THIS WAS A MAILING LIST WE HAD
TO PROMISE NOT TO GIVE IT TO
THIS CITY SO THEY WOULD HAVE A
MAILING AND THEY AND THEY WOULD
ASK US OR WE WOULD ASK THEM IF
WE COULD SEND IT TO OUR MAILING
LIST AS WELL AND IT MADE A BIG
DIFFERENCE IN TERMS OF PEOPLING
THE THE IMPACT FOR EXAMPLE, IN
GETTING INFORMATION ABOUT WHAT
THAT COMMISSION NEEDED IN ORDER
TO BE SUCCESSFUL.
>> WE HAVE NOT USED IT FOR
ABOUT FOUR YEARS AND IT IS OUT
OF DATE AND I WANT TO KNOW IF
YOU STILL THINK IT'S IMPORTANT.
I THOUGHT IT WAS IMPORTANT AT
THE TIME AND I WHEN THE UNARMED
RESPONSE SURVEY WENT OUT I WAS
VERY SORRY THAT WE DIDN'T HAVE
IT ALTHOUGH NO ONE TOLD US THAT
IT WAS GOING TO COME OUT AND NO
ONE ASKED FOR IT BUT WE WOULD
BE MORE PROACTIVE IF WE HAD IT
AND IF IT WAS UP TO DATE IT
TAKES SOME DOING IT.
IT MEANS WE HAVE TO, YOU KNOW,
MAIL THE LIST OUT, ASK PEOPLE
IF THEY STILL WANT TO BE ON IT.
>> WE HAVE TO GO OUT OF OUR WAY
TO MAKE SURE THAT PEOPLE WE
KNOW ARE INTERESTED KNOW ABOUT
IT WHEN WE GO PLACES WE SHOULD
TELL PEOPLE IF YOU DON'T HAVE
IF YOU'RE NOT ON ALREADY ON OUR
MAILING LIST AND YOU WANT TO BE
PLEASE SIGN UP.
WE DON'T CARE.
WE DON'T GATHER ANY INFORMATION
EXCEPT THE PERSON'S NAME AND
THEIR EMAIL ADDRESS AND THIS IS
FOR PERSONS AND FOR GROUPS THAT
WE THINK ARE SPECIALLY
INTERESTED IN HUMAN RIGHTS
KINDS OF ISSUES.
THAT'S THE ONLY THE ONLY
LIMITATION OUR ONLY
REQUIREMENT.
SO WE'RE NOT IT'S NOT VERY IT'S
NOT INVASIVE.
>> ARE YOU ARE YOU THINKING ARE
YOU AGREEING THAT THIS IS AN
IMPORTANT OR WHAT DO YOU THINK
ABOUT IT?
>> I SEE NO HARM.
I THINK IT'S ALSO TERRIBLY LOW
MAINTENANCE.
AGAIN, THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
WE COULD PUT ON OUR WEBSITE
SHOULD WE HAVE ONE HUNDRED
PEOPLE IN A MONTH OR SHOULD WE
HAVE HUNDRED PEOPLE IN THE YEAR
?
WE CAN JUST HAVE IT AUTO
POPULATE TO OUR MAILING LIST
AND THEN SEND OUT EMAILS THAT
WOULD LIKELY ALREADY BE SENDING
OUT TO COMMUNITY MEMBERS OR
EVEN OURSELVES ANYWAYS.
SO I DENISE IS THE MASTER ALL
OF THESE THINGS SO FRANKLY I
WOULD DEFAULT TO HER EXPERTIZE
BUT I THINK THAT THE ACTUAL
LIFT WOULD BE PRETTY LIGHT IF
WE WERE TO CONTINUE OR REFRESH
OUR PRIORITIZATION OF THIS.
I GUESS MY QUESTION WOULD BE
HOW DO WE ENSURE EQUITY ON OUR
MAILING LIST?
I MEAN IT WOULD BE DISASTROUS
IF IT TURNED OUT THAT WE
WEREN'T MAILING TO A
REPRESENTATIVE UH, GOOD IN
TERMS OF DIVERSITY, ARE WE
MAILING TO ALL AGE GROUPS THAT
WE MAILING TO ALL INCOME LEVELS
WE MAILING TO ALL ETHNIC
GROUPS.
ARE WE YOU KNOW WHAT I MEAN OR
ARE WE JUST NOTIFYING WE FIRST
OF ALL WE WOULD USE THE CITIES
AND THEN WE WOULD MAKE A
SEPARATE MAILING FOR THINGS
THAT WE'RE SENSITIVE TO THAT TO
THE GROUP OF PEOPLE WHO WE
THOUGHT WHO SAID THEY WERE
INTERESTED IN HUMAN RIGHTS.
WE WOULD NOT BE CHECKING.
I DON'T THINK WE WOULD KNOW NO
,IT'S NOT THAT I EXPECT THE
CITY TO TELL US BUT THEN IT
WOULD BE INCUMBENT UPON US TO
MAKE SURE THAT WE REACH RIGHT
ORGANIZATIONS IN GROUPS WHERE
WE CAN ALL RIGHT.
DO A THOROUGH OUTREACH.
THAT'S ALL RIGHT.
>> WILL FALL ON US TO DO THAT
PART.
YES, I THINK THAT'S TRUE.
>> YEAH, I SEE THAT I ALSO
AGREE THAT IT'S THE GOOD IDEA
OF SOMETHING THAT I FEEL LIKE
I'VE BEEN HEARING IN THIS
MEETING IN GENERAL THAT WE KIND
OF JUST NEED TO DO MORE
STRATEGIC PLANNING SESSION ON
WHAT IS OUR COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT AND OUTREACH LOOK
LIKE IN GENERAL AND I THINK
THAT WILL GIVE US A BETTER
SENSE OF HOW CAN WE BEST
UTILIZE THIS?
HOW CAN WE BEST FORMAT IT?
HOW CAN WE INNOVATE IT AND NEED
BE WHAT ARE SOME OTHER
LOCATIONS OR PEOPLE THAT WE
ALSO NEED TO REACH OUT TO AS
WELL?
BUT I THINK RIGHT NOW FROM WHAT
I'M UNDERSTANDING THAT NEEDS TO
BE A CONVERSATION ABOUT WHAT
HAS THAT HOLISTIC COMMUNICATION
OUTREACH APPROACH LOOK LIKE.
I THINK THIS IS A COMPONENT
OF THAT.
>> BUT YEAH, YOU SPEAK A LITTLE
BIT MORE WORKSHOP I THINK
OVERALL AS WE THINK ABOUT THE
NEXT STEPS, CAN YOU I WANT TO
SIGN ONTO THAT.
OK, ANYTHING ANYTHING ELSE?
>> YES.
THE ID PROJECT THE PROJECT.
YES.
THANK YOU WAS WHAT I WANTED TO
ADDRESS WAS THIS NOTION THAT
MAYBE ON OUR WEB SITE RATHER
THAN HAVE PEOPLE WHO SAY HAVE
AN EXPERIENCE WHERE SOMEONE
REJECTS THEIR ID CARD RATHER
THAN HAVE THEM FILL OUT THE
COMPLETE COMPLAINT, WE COULD
HAVE SOMETHING SHORTER
THAT
JUST GAVE US WHERE THE ID WAS
REJECTED.
RIGHT.
AND IF THEY WANT TO BE
CONTACTED THEY CAN LET US KNOW
BUT SOMETHING JUST TO GET US
THERE BECAUSE I REALLY THINK
THAT WITH THAT KIND
OF INFORMATION WE CAN GO AND
MAKE CONTACT WITH STORE OWNERS
AND MANAGERS AND YOU KNOW,
REALLY LIKE ADDRESS IT AS IT
ARISES.
>> BUT THOSE FORMS ARE
INTENSIVE.
>> YOU KNOW, ALL WE NEED I
THINK FIRST OF ALL WE NEED TO
FIND OUT WE NEED TO MAKE SURE
PEOPLE KNEW THAT IF THEY GET
REJECTED FOR A LOCALLY LOCAL
GOVERNMENT, ANY ID, ANY
GOVERNMENT ISSUED EVERY ANY
GOVERNMENT ISSUED ID THEY NEED
TO CALL US AND LET KNOW AND LET
US KNOW WHERE OR WE COULD PUT
IT ON THE WEBSITE AND IT COULD
JUST BE A YOU KNOW, A BRIEF
FORM.
OK, WE COULD DO THAT BECAUSE I
MEAN I HAVE BEEN WORKING WITH
APP DEVELOPERS TO DEVELOP AN
APP THAT JUST LETS PEOPLE SAY,
YOU KNOW, YES, IT WAS ACCEPTED
.
NO IT WASN'T ACCEPTED AND HAD
THAT SHARED THROUGH THE
COMMUNITY SO THAT YOU KNOW,
EVERYONE WILL KNOW GO THERE OR
DON'T THERE UNTIL WE'RE ABLE TO
INTERVENE AND SET IT RIGHT.
>> DENISE, IS THAT POSSIBLE?
IT'S THAT EASY.
WELL, WE CAN GET
I CAN
CERTAINLY AS I TO LOOK IN TO A
SHORT PAGE THAT YOU CAN UPLOAD
JUST THE MINOR MAJOR
INFORMATION THE NAME AND
ADDRESS AND LOCATION AND ZIP
CODE .
>> YEAH.
OF THE STORE OR RESTAURANT OR
WHATEVER THAT WOULD NOT ACCEPT
THE CAR.
>> YEAH THAT'S PERFECT.
IS THERE SOMETHING THAT COULD
BE DONE TO PROVIDE A FLIER WITH
THE ID THAT SAYS IF YOU HAVE
TROUBLE WITH THIS ONE SURE.
>> I MEAN IT'S WHAT I WHAT I
LOVE ABOUT OUR ORDINANCE IT'S
IT'S ABOUT EVERYDAY IT'S NOT
JUST ABOUT THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT
ISSUED ID CARDS SO YOU KNOW YOU
MIGHT HAVE AN ID CARD FROM I
DON'T KNOW TEXAS AND NO ONE
HERE HAS SEEN AN ID FROM TEXAS.
>> WELL, YOU CAN'T JUST REJECT
IT, YOU KNOW, I MEAN PEOPLE
WHEN THEY ARE UNCOMFORTABLE OR
THEY DON'T WANT TO FOLLOW
THROUGH WITH A TRANSACTION WILL
COME UP WITH LOTS OF REASONS.
SO YES, THOUGH I THINK A FLIER
THAT WOULD BE GREAT FOR WASHING
UP I THINK I TALKED WITH THE
OFFICE OF THE COUNTY CLERK BUT
REALLY FOR THE KIND
OF COMMUNICATION THAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT AND FOR THE FOLKS
WE NEED TO COMMUNICATE WITH,
THIS IS REALLY BAD TO A POINT
AT THE ENGAGEMENT.
RIGHT, RIGHT.
WAS IT DEALING WITH BECAUSE
IT'S YOU KNOW, IT'S THOSE
TRYING TO CONVENE FOLKS ON A
SATURDAY BECAUSE EVERYBODY'S
WORKING TWO JOBS, YOU KNOW THAT
KIND OF PUSH.
BUT I THINK IT'S WORTH IT.
SO YES, I WANT TO DO IT.
OK, LET'S DO IT.
LET'S DO IT.
I MEAN SERIOUSLY, IF I COULD
PEDDLE LIKE STREET TIME I COULD
DO A PAMPHLET.
>> I THINK SO I JUST YOU OK?
>> I THINK WE'RE DONE WITH THIS
WE'RE DONE WITH THIS.
>> I THINK SO YES.
YES EITHER CAN COMMISSIONER
COMMUNICATIONS THINGS YOU WANT
TO TELL US DO YOU THINK WE
OUGHT TO KNOW?
>> YES, I HAVE ONE EVERYONE
TOMORROW AT THE ANN ARBOR
DISTRICT LIBRARY AT SIX THIRTY
PM AT THE DOWNTOWN LOCATION
FEEL WELCOME TO EMAIL ME FOR
ANY OTHER ASSOCIATED DETAILS IN
RESPONSE TO THE TRAGEDY THAT
HAPPENED IN EAST LANSING,
MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY'S
CAMPUS IN COLLABORATION WITH
MOMS DEMAND ACTION.
WE ARE HAVING A TOWN HALL ON
GUN SAFETY AND REFORM WITH
STATE SENATOR SUE SCHENCK AND
STATE REPRESENTATIVE JASON
MORGAN AND KERRY RYAN GON'S
REALLY THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR OUR COMMUNITY TO VOICE
THEIR CONCERNS, SHARED THEIR
IDEAS AND ULTIMATELY JUST SAY
THEIR PIECE SO THAT THEY CAN
FEEL ADEQUATELY REPRESENTED IN
LANSING WHEN THESE LEGISLATORS
ARE MAKING THEIR DECISIONS AND
PUSHING THESE PROPOSALS
FORWARD.
IF YOU DO NOT FEEL COMFORTABLE
TALKING OR SHARING YOUR STORY,
PLEASE JUST COME TO LISTEN.
I THINK IT WILL BE A REALLY
CENTRAL AND MAJOR TENANT IN OUR
HEALING AS WE THINK OF OUR
SISTER COMMUNITY SO PLEASE FEEL
WELCOME TO COME.
IT IS TOMORROW AT SIX THIRTY AT
THE END OF OUR DISTRICT LIBRARY
DOWNTOWN LOCATION.
IT IS ALSO POSTED ON IN OUR
DISTRICT LIBRARY EVENTS WEBSITE
AND CAN BE FOUND THERE IF NOT
FEEL WELCOME TO EMAIL ME YOU
KNOW IF IT'S GOING TO BE
TELEVISED IT SHOULD BE LIVE
STREAMED I BELIEVE I'M UNSURE
OF THE TELEVISED PIECE THAT
SOME THAT CAN FOLLOW UP WITH
AND IF SO I KNOW THAT WE HAVE
TEMPORARY LIVE STREAMING LINKS
THAT CAN EXIST FOR ABOUT TWO
WEEKS.
>> BUT YES, GREAT.
>> THANK YOU.
OF COURSE.
THANK YOU TO SEE SOME OF YOU
THERE.
ANYBODY ELSE IF THERE'S NO YES.
MOTION TO ADJOURN SECOND ALL IN
FAVOR I THANK YOU FOLKS.
WE REALLY DIDN'T HAVE TIME FOR
GUESTS